44
“Someone remind me why this was a good idea?” Gwyn panted beside
Nesta, sweat running along her face as they went over their basic sword-
work.
“Remind me, too,” Emerie grunted. Nesta, too winded to speak, simply
grunted with her.
Cassian chuckled, and the sound raked itself down her body. He’d taken
her hand in the library last night, leading her up to her room, his eyes still
soft. But that had faded when he’d spied a copy of Gwyn’s chapters about
the Valkyries on Nesta’s desk. She’d been reading about them, she’d
explained when he’d picked up the pages and leafed through them.
His only answer had been to kiss her deeply before lying on the bed,
positioning her above his face so he could feast on her leisurely. Nesta
endured all of a minute until she’d needed to touch him, and had pivoted,
letting him continue devouring her while she’d stretched down his body and
taken him into her mouth.
She’d never done that—feasted and been feasted upon—and he’d come
on her tongue just before she’d come on his. They’d waited only a short
time, panting in silence on her bed, before she climbed over him, stroking
him with her hand, then her mouth, and when he was ready, she’d sunk onto
him, taking in each marvelous, thick inch. With him stretching and filling
her so deliciously, she’d climaxed swiftly. He’d chased her pleasure with his
own, gripping her hips and bucking into her, hitting that perfect spot and
sending her climaxing again.
She’d been slightly, pleasantly sore this morning, and he’d winked at
her across the breakfast table, as if aware of how tender certain areas were
while sitting.
There was no trace of that smug satisfaction now as Cassian said to
them, “I’d thought today would be a good day to integrate the eight-pointed
star, but if you’re already complaining, we can wait until next week.”“We’re not complaining,” Gwyn said, sucking in air. “You’re just
running us ragged.”
The newest priestesses working with Az were already wobbling on
exhausted legs.
Cassian caught Nesta’s stare. “Some Valkyrie unit you have.”
Gwyn whirled on Nesta. “You told him?”
“No,” Nesta and Cassian said together. Cassian added, “You think I
haven’t noticed the breathing techniques that let you get that calm, steady
look even when me and Az are pissing you off? I sure as hell didn’t teach
you that. I can recognize Mind-Stilling a mile off.”
They just gawked at him. Then Gwyn asked, “You know the
technique?”
“Of course I do. I fought beside the Valkyries in the War.”
Stunned silence rippled. Nesta had forgotten how old these Fae were,
how much Cassian had seen and lived through. She cleared her throat. “You
knew the Valkyries personally?”
Gwyn let out a high-pitched noise that was nothing but pure excitement.
Azriel, on the other side of the ring with the rest of the priestesses, half-
turned at the sound, brows high.
Cassian flashed a grin. “I fought beside the Valkyries for five battles.
But that stopped at the Battle of Meinir Pass.” His smile faded. “When most
of them died to save it. The Valkyries knew it was a suicide mission from the
start.”
Azriel returned to his charges, but Nesta had a feeling the shadowsinger
monitored every word, every gesture from his brother.
Even Gwyn stopped smiling. “Why did they fight, then? Everyone there
knew it would be a slaughter. But I’ve never been able to find anything on
the politics behind it.”
“I don’t know. I was a grunt for an Illyrian legion; I wasn’t privy to any
of the leaders’ discussions.” He looked to Nesta, who was gaping at him.
“But I had … friends who fell that day.” The way he hesitated on friends
made her wonder if any had been more than that. And even though they
were honorable, fallen dead, something ugly twisted in her chest. “The
Valkyries fought when even the bravest males would not. The Illyrians tried
to forget that. I fought against males who were my superiors, arguing to help
the Valkyries. They beat me senseless, chained me to a supply wagon, and
left me there. When I came to, the battle was over, the Valkyries slain.”This was the male she’d taken to her bed, who’d left again last night
without kissing her good-bye. “Why didn’t you mention this when you saw
the pages about them on my desk?”
“You didn’t ask.” He unsheathed his Illyrian blade. “Enough history.”
He drew four lines in the dirt, all intersecting to form an eight-pointed star.
“This is your map for striking with a sword. These eight maneuvers. You’ve
learned six of them. You’ll learn the other two today, and we’ll start on the
combinations.”
Gwyn asked, “Why don’t we use the Valkyrie techniques, if you
admired them so much?”
“Because I don’t know them.”
Nesta smirked. “If we are to be Valkyries born again,” she said, “maybe
we should combine the Illyrian and Valkyrie techniques.”
She’d meant it in jest, but the words rumbled through the space, as if
she’d spoken some great truth, something that made fate sit up. Azriel turned
to them fully this time, eyes narrowed. Like those shadows had whispered
something to him.
A chill breathed down Nesta’s spine.
Cassian stared into their faces. Like he beheld something he hadn’t seen
there before.
At last, he said thickly, “Today, we learn Illyrian techniques.” He
nodded to Gwyn. “Tomorrow, you bring me whatever information you have
on the Valkyries’ style.”
“It’s an enormous amount,” Gwyn said. “Merrill is writing a book on it.
I could get you a copy of the current manuscript, since it has most of the
information in one place.”
Cassian seemed to gain control of whatever emotion had taken hold of
him, for he rubbed his jaw. Nesta’s blood thrummed in response. “Something
new,” he said more to himself than to them. “Something old becoming
something new.”
He grinned again, and Nesta found her mouth twitching to answer with
a grin of her own.
Especially as Cassian’s eyes brightened. “All right, ladies. First lesson
about Valkyries: they don’t whine about being sweaty.”“Valkyries?” Feyre asked from across the dining table in the river house,
fork half-raised to her lips. “Truly?”
“Truly,” Cassian said, sipping from his wine at dinner that evening.
He’d come down to the manor to discuss what to do with the weapons Nesta
had Made—to learn what Feyre’s vote would be. She hadn’t hesitated before
saying that Nesta should be informed. But when she’d volunteered to tell
her, Cassian had stepped in. He’d tell Nesta, when the moment was right.
The only one who hadn’t voted was Mor, who remained in Vallahan to
keep coaxing its rulers to sign the new treaty, her absence marked by a place
of honor set for her at the table.
“We never heard of them in the human lands,” Elain said. She’d been as
riveted as Feyre to hear Cassian tell of it: first of Nesta and the others’
interest, then of the brief history of the female fighters. “They must have
been fearsome creatures.”
“Some were as lovely as you, Elain,” Rhys said from beside Feyre,
“from the outside. But once they set foot into the arena of battle, they
became as bloodthirsty as Amren.”
Amren lifted her glass in salute. “I liked those females. Never let a male
boss them around—though I could have done without their foolish king. He
is as much to blame for their deaths as the Illyrians who walked away during
that battle.”
“I can’t argue with that,” Cassian said. It had taken him a long, long
time to get over that battle. He’d never been back to that pass in the Gollian
Mountains, but rumor claimed its rocks remained barren, as if the earth still
mourned the females who’d given their lives with no hesitation, who had
laughed at death and embraced life so fully. His first lover beyond the Night
Court’s borders had been from the Valkyries’ ranks—a bold-hearted female
named Tanwyn with a smile like a storm. She’d ridden into that battle at the
head of the Valkyries and had never come out of the pass. Cassian added
after a moment, “Nesta would have fit in well with them.”
“I always thought she was born on the wrong side of the wall,” Elain
admitted. “She made ballrooms into battlefields and plotted like any general.
Like you two,” she said, nodding to Cassian, and then, a bit more shyly, to
Azriel.
Azriel offered her a small smile that Elain quickly looked away from.
Cassian tucked away his puzzlement. Lucien was certainly not here to snarl
at any male who looked at her for too long.Feyre at last took her hearty bite of food. “Nesta is a wolf who has been
locked in a cage her whole life.”
“I know,” Cassian said. She was a wolf who had never learned how to
be a wolf, thanks to that cage humans called propriety and society. And like
any maltreated animal, she bit anyone who came near. Good thing he liked
being bitten. Good thing he savored the bruises and scratches she left on his
body every night, and that her unleashing when he was buried in her made
him want to answer it with his own.
Elain leaned forward. “You only think you know—you haven’t seen her
on the dance floor. That’s when Nesta truly lets the wolf roam free. When
there’s music.”
“Really?” Nesta had told him once, when he’d dragged her out of a
particular seedy tavern, that she’d been there for the music. He’d ignored
her, thinking it an excuse.
“Yes,” Elain said. “She was trained in dance from a very young age.
She loves it, and music. Not in the way I enjoy a waltz or gavotte, but in the
way that performers make an art of it. Nesta could bring an entire ballroom
to a halt when she danced with someone.”
Cassian set down his wine. “She mentioned dance lessons to me a few
weeks ago.” He’d assumed those lessons were why Nesta had quickly
mastered her footwork and balance, despite her initial difficulty. The muscle
memory must have remained intact. But if dance had been drilled into her as
ruthlessly as he’d learned to fight—
“She wouldn’t have gone into much detail about it,” Elain said. “Nesta
was only fourteen at the last ball we went to before—well, before we were
poor …” Elain shook her head. “Another young heiress was at the ball, and
she positively hated me. She was several years older, and I’d never done
anything to provoke her hatred, but I think …”
“She was jealous of your beauty,” Amren said, an amused smile on her
red lips.
Elain blushed. “Perhaps.”
It was definitely that. Even though Elain would have been barely
thirteen at the time.
“Well, Nesta saw how she treated me, her casual cruelties and snubs,
and bided her time. Waited until that ball, when a handsome duke from the
continent was there to find a bride. His family had run out of money, which
was why he’d deigned to come over at all—to nab a rich bride to refill theirestate’s coffers. Nesta knew the heiress had her sights set on him. The girl
had bragged about it to all of us in the powder room at every ball for weeks
leading up to it.
“Nesta spent a small fortune on her gown and jewels for that night. Our
father was always too scared of her to say no, and that night … Well, she
truly looked the part of the daughter of the Prince of Merchants. An
amethyst silk gown with gold thread, diamonds and pearls at her neck and
ears …” Elain sighed. Such wealth. Cassian had never realized what wealth
they’d possessed and lost.
“The entire ball stopped when Nesta entered,” Elain said. “She made an
entrance of it, perfectly cool and aloof, even at fourteen. She barely glanced
the duke’s way. Because she’d learned about him as well. Knew he grew
bored of anyone that chased him. And knew that the wealth on her that night
dwarfed anything that heiress was wearing.”
Amren was grinning now. “Nesta tried to win a duke out of spite? At
fourteen?”
Elain didn’t smile. “She lured him into asking her for a dance with a
few well-placed looks across the ballroom. The same waltz that heiress
wanted for herself, had boasted would be all she needed to secure his
marriage bid. Nesta took that dance from her. And then took the duke from
her, too. Nesta danced that night like she was one of you.”
“If you’ve seen Cassian’s dancing,” Rhys muttered, “that’s not saying
much.”
Cassian flipped off his High Lord as Feyre and Az chuckled.
Elain continued, voice hushed with near-reverence, “The duke was
vain, and Nesta played into that. The entire room came to a standstill. Their
dancing was that good; she was that beautiful. And when it ended … I knew
she was an artist then. The same way Feyre is. But what Feyre does with
paint, that’s what Nesta did with music and dance. Our mother saw it when
we were children, and honed it into a weapon. All so Nesta might one day
marry a prince.”
Cassian froze. A prince—was that what Nesta wanted? His stomach
clenched.
“What happened to the duke?” Azriel asked.
Elain grimaced. “He proposed marriage the next morning.”
Rhys choked on his wine. “She was fourteen.”“I told you: Nesta is a very good dancer. But that was what my father
said—she was too young. It was a graceful exit, since my father, despite his
faults, knew Nesta well. He knew she had taunted that duke into making a
marriage offer just to punish the heiress for her cruelty toward me. Nesta had
no interest in him—knew she was far too young. Even if the duke seemed
more interested in just … reserving her until she was old enough.” Elain
shuddered with distaste. “But I think some part of Nesta believed she would
indeed marry a prince one day. So the duke went home with no bride, and
that heiress … Well, she was one of the people who delighted in our
misfortunes.”
“I’d forgotten,” Feyre murmured. “About this, and about her dancing.”
“Nesta never spoke of it afterward,” Elain said. “I just observed.”
Nesta was wrong, Cassian realized, to think Elain as loyal and loving as
a dog. Elain saw every single thing Nesta had done, and understood why.
Amren asked pointedly, “So your mother twisted Nesta’s creative joys
into a social climber’s arsenal?”
Feyre cut in, “Our mother was not what one would call a pleasant
person. Nesta has made her own choices, but our mother laid the
groundwork.”
Elain nodded, folding her hands in her lap. “So I’m very pleased to hear
of this Valkyrie business. I’m happy that Nesta finds interest in something
again. And might channel all of … that into it.” That, Cassian knew, meant
her rage, her fierce and unyielding loyalty to those she loved, her wolf’s
instincts and ability to kill.
They moved on to far merrier subjects, but Cassian mulled it over
throughout the evening. The fighting was only one part of it. The training
would sustain her, funnel that rage, but there had to be more. There had to be
joy.
There had to be music.CHAPTER
