67
Emerie confirmed that she’d been attacked and chased by the males Nesta
had spied at the river. She’d leaped in as a final shot at survival, hit her head
on a rock, and remembered nothing until the cave.
Nesta gave her a swift, brutal rundown of her own encounters as they
picked their way southward, mostly keeping silent to listen for any passing
Illyrians. A few solo warriors ignored them as they trudged past, covered in
blood, all heading east; a few packs battled each other; and many more
bodies lay on the cold earth.
They scanned for any gleam of copper hair. But they saw and heard no
sign of Gwyn. They did not speak of whether their charms might be leading
them toward a body.
The day passed, and they found another cave as night fell, huddling
together for warmth. Emerie insisted on taking the first watch, and Nesta
slept at last. When her friend woke her, Nesta had the feeling that Emerie
had let her doze for longer than she should have.
In the morning, they emerged to find blood mixed with the snow on the
ground. The animal tracks around the mouth of the cave were large enough
to roil Nesta’s stomach.
Soon, snow began falling in earnest. Enough to veil the world ahead
and behind, and any enemies with it. They shivered with each step
southward, though they’d piled on extra jackets from fallen warriors, and as
the morning crept toward midday, Nesta flexed her fingers to keep her hands
from freezing through.
If she survived, she’d never again complain about the summer heat;
never again take for granted her coat and hat and gloves and that stupid scarf
Cassian had made her wear out of her apartment all those months earlier.
“I smell fire,” Emerie murmured. They’d last spoken hours ago,
concentrating instead on staving off the cold that was so deep it made their
teeth ache.They halted behind two pines, surveying the terrain, the snow-heavy
sky. Nesta consulted her charm. “That way,” she said, inclining her head to
the left. “The fire is also in that direction—the wind’s carrying the smoke
down from that ridge.”
“It could be Gwyn’s fire,” Emerie suggested hopefully.
Nesta nodded, calming her pounding heart. They inched along, darting
from tree to tree, listening for any danger around them, any hint of Gwyn
ahead. They’d been moving for several minutes when the laughter reached
them. Male laughter.
Emerie’s face paled as she held her bracelet toward the source of the
laughter. Its charm glowed, glinting even in the sun’s weak winter light.
“Keep downwind,” Nesta said grimly. “We’ll take the ridge from the
southern side.”
A nightgown hung on a branch near the camp’s edge.
Nesta’s stomach rose, her meager breakfast burning her throat. A soft
inhale of breath from Emerie was her friend’s only sign of dread and pain as
they climbed the last of the ridge toward the warriors camped atop it. They
were boasting about the males they’d killed, the remaining trek toward
Ramiel. Nesta strained to hear any hint of a female amongst them. If Gwyn’s
nightgown was hanging from a tree, then Gwyn—
To hell with reaching Ramiel. She’d spend the rest of the week here,
killing them all slowly.
The crest of the ridge lay ten feet above.
Nesta controlled her breathing, keeping it silent and shallow, as the
Valkyries had done. A glance at Emerie told her the female was doing the
same, even as rage kindled in her dark eyes.
They’d decided before they ascended the slope that, as Emerie’s wings
arced too high above her head, Nesta would assess what lay beyond the
ridge. Emerie held two knives; Nesta had one dagger and the Illyrian bow
and two arrows. Nesta would have to use her peek to gather information
about what weapons the males had, too.
They swapped one final look, just as the males burst into laughter, and
Nesta rose. Only high enough for her vision to clear the ridge’s edge.
Ten males sat around a fire, eating. Some had axes, some had swords,
some had knives. Nesta picked out the male in the middle, laughing andtalking the loudest, as the leader. His face—she’d seen his face before.
Somewhere.
No sign of Gwyn. Nesta ducked back down, pivoting toward Emerie.
But Emerie was gone. Dragged halfway down the slope, and held
between two grinning males.
No one went in or out of the towering, gray-stoned castle. Azriel and
Cassian took turns circling it from high above, waiting for any sign of a
departing group, but the gates did not open. Nobody even came or departed
from the walled city surrounding it. As if the gates had been locked, its
people kept within. No villages dotted the hills around it, either.
The castle seemed to have risen out of the earth and settled there,
squatting like some enormous beast over the land.
“Briallyn has to know we’re here,” Cassian said as he alit, his latest
aerial survey completed. “You think she’s waiting for us to make a move?”
“I think the better question is if Eris is still alive,” Azriel murmured,
shadows whispering in his ear. “I can’t get a read on it.”
“Waiting is pointless. We should break in. Keep out of sight, so she
won’t even know we’re there and be tempted to use the Crown on us.”
“I told you: the place is guarded with as many wards as the House of
Wind. If Briallyn is moving Eris, we’ll be better off catching him then.”
“Maybe the merchant was wrong.”
“Maybe. We’ll continue surveillance through tomorrow.” Azriel crossed
his arms. “I know you want to help Nesta. Maybe Amren can find some
loophole in the laws …”
Cassian swallowed hard. “There’s no loophole. If I interfere, we’re both
dead. And even if I did, Nesta would kill me if I jumped in to save her. She’d
never forgive me for it.”
He’d had nothing else to do except contemplate it these past days.
Nesta’s fate was her own. She was strong enough to forge her own path,
even through the horrors of the Blood Rite. He’d taught her the skills to do
so himself.
And even if the laws had allowed it, he would never take that away
from her: the chance to save herself.“I didn’t think you’d be stupid enough to fall for the nightgown, but I
suppose that’s the difference between a female thinking she’s a warrior and
the real thing,” the cold-faced leader said as Nesta and Emerie were hurled at
his booted feet. He chuckled, eyes glassy enough that Nesta wondered if
someone had smuggled in a case of wine along with the weapons. “Hello
Emerie.”
Nesta recognized the male then. Bellius, Emerie’s hateful cousin.
Emerie only spat, “Where the fuck is she?”
Bellius shrugged. “Found the nightgown a few miles ago. Perhaps some
other warrior fucked and killed her.” His smile held nothing but evil. “You
shouldn’t have come here, cousin.”
Emerie retorted, “I was brought here against my will, cousin. But now
I’ll enjoy proving you and your father wrong.
His teeth shone in the dim, snowy light through the forest canopy.
“You’ve disgraced your father. Disgraced our family.”
Nesta eyed her weapons at the male’s feet, all ceded upon Emerie’s
capture.
“Was it you who sabotaged the Rite with these weapons?” Nesta
seethed.
Bellius chuckled again, though his eyes remained hazy. Flakes of snow
gathered in his dark hair. “I wouldn’t call it sabotage. And neither did she.”
Nesta froze. She’d seen that glassy-eyed look before—on the faces of
Eris’s soldiers.
And that word—she. Had Briallyn somehow ensnared Bellius with the
Crown? He’d looked glassy-eyed when she’d seen him in Emerie’s shop
months ago. When he’d recently come back from a scouting trip to the
continent. Briallyn must have intercepted him then. Perhaps used the Crown
to influence the Illyrians to break their sacred rules of the Rite, to plant the
weapons here. But why?
Bellius said to Emerie as the female shook with rage, “You know I can’t
let you leave here alive. Our family would never recover from the shame.”
“Fuck you,” Emerie snarled. “Fuck your family.”
Bellius just eyed Nesta, smiling faintly. He brushed the snow from the
shoulders of his jacket. “I get first crack at the High Fae bitch,” he said to his
warriors.
Nesta’s gut churned, acid burning through her. She had to find some
way out of this, even outnumbered, unarmed, with no magic—The pure panic and rage in Emerie’s face told her that her friend, too,
was coming up short on any solution.
Bellius stepped toward them.
And then blood splattered across the side of his face as the guts of one
of his cronies spilled onto the snow before him.
The thing that crawled over the ridge had been crafted of nightmares. Part
cat, part serpent, all black fur and sharp claws and hooked teeth. It halted at
the edge of the camp. Didn’t look down at the gutted corpse of the warrior
whose abdomen it had sliced open with a single swipe. Blood stained the
snow around him in a wide circle.
The warriors, Bellius with them, readied themselves. Bellius drew his
sword.
The creature leaped. Warriors screamed, weapons flashing in the
bloodied, shrieking fray.
“Run,” Nesta ordered Emerie, surging to her feet. She snatched her
weapons, and Emerie lunged to grab a sword as it flew from a warrior’s
hand and into the snow.
A female voice rang out from the other side of the ridge. “Here!”
Nesta nearly sobbed at the voice, at the coppery head of hair that
popped up, the hand beckoning as Bellius and his males squared off against
the thing tearing into them. Nesta and Emerie reached the hilltop’s edge and
slid down, snow spraying. Gwyn waited on its other side, bloodied and in a
warrior’s clothes, face filthy and torn, but eyes clear.
“Follow me,” Gwyn breathed, and they wasted no effort arguing as they
half-fell down the hillside and sprinted through the trees, aiming to the
southeast.
They ran until the warriors’ screams, the beast’s roars, were distant.
Until they faded away entirely.
They stopped near a trickle of a stream through the snow, panting so
hard Nesta had to lean against a tree.
“How?” Emerie gasped out.
“I woke up before the others,” Gwyn said between breaths, a hand on
her chest.
“So did I,” Nesta said. “I thought it was because I’m Made, but maybe
it’s because you and I aren’t Illyrian.”Gwyn nodded. “I started running, and found a cache of weapons almost
immediately.” She gestured to the blood on her Illyrian leathers. “I changed
from the nightgown into someone else’s clothes. From a body, I mean.” She
held up her wrist. “Did you know this thing glows? I remembered your wish
for us: that we’d always be able to find our way back to each other. No
matter what. I figured it would lead me to you. It must be somehow immune
to the magic ban in the Rite.”
She smiled crookedly at Nesta. “I kept to the trees the first two nights,
watching the beasts, and I spotted that horrible male and his companions this
morning. Saw they’d found my nightgown and displayed it, and I knew they
were hunting for you. I thought I’d take them out before they could find
you.”
“You led the beast right to them.”
“I learned where the beasts sleep during the day,” Gwyn said. “And that
they get very angry when awoken.” She pointed to the cuts on her face, her
hands. “I barely outran that one as I led it toward the camp. My timing was
just good luck, though.”
Emerie shuddered. “The Mother watched over us.”
Nesta could have sworn the charms on their bracelets let out a soft,
singing hum at that.
But Gwyn winced. “He’s really your cousin?”
“I hope I can refer to that sad fact in the past tense after this,” Emerie
said coolly.
Nesta offered her a savage smile. “We need to keep moving. If Bellius
or any of his friends survive, they’ll want to kill us even more now.”
Four more days. They had to last four more days.
Gwyn said hoarsely as they moved into the wilderness, the snow
mercifully lightening, “You two came looking for me.”
“Of course we did,” Emerie said, interlacing her hand with Gwyn’s,
then Nesta’s, and squeezing tightly. “It’s what sisters do.”CHAPTER
