80
Spring bloomed fully around Velaris, and Feyre and Nyx were finally well
enough to leave the house each day, going on walks that often lasted hours
thanks to the well-wishers who longed to see the child. Someone always
accompanied them, usually Rhys or Mor, who was just as protective as the
parents of the babe. Cassian and Azriel were hardly better.
But none of the others were present on a warm day a few weeks later,
when Nesta joined Feyre and Elain for a walk outside the city. Even a glance
at the sky revealed no sign of Cassian, who had been keeping Nesta up until
dawn with his lovemaking and had become utterly obnoxious about calling
her mate any chance he got, except at their continuing morning training with
the priestesses.
Succeeding in the Blood Rite didn’t mean the training stopped. No,
after she and her friends told Cassian and Azriel most of the details of their
ordeal, the two commanders had compiled a long list of mistakes that the
three of them had made that needed to be corrected, and the others wanted to
learn from them, too. So they would keep training, until they were all well
and truly Valkyries. Gwyn, despite the Rite, had returned to living in the
library.
Gwyn had said she might leave for Nesta and Cassian’s mating
ceremony in three days, which would take place in the small temple on the
river house’s grounds. Despite Nesta’s wishes for an ornate ceremony, she
hadn’t wanted a giant crowd. The temple was already being bedecked with
flowers of every variety, enchanted against wilting, as well as silks and lace
and candles and garlands—all of it paid for by Rhys, who could not stop
buying her presents. Dresses and jewels and throw pillows and all manner of
nonsense had rained down on her until Nesta had to order him to stop,
saying that an extravagant mating ceremony would make them even.
So Rhys had ensured that the ceremony would be as outrageous as
possible. Nesta had no doubt the temple would be covered in such riches it’d
be laughable.But all that mattered, she realized, was the male who would be standing
with her, first as they swore their vows, then as they offered each other food,
and then as their friends and family bound their hands together with a length
of black ribbon, to remain until the mating was consummated.
Even though the consummating had been going on two or three times a
day for weeks now.
But it didn’t matter. Nesta could hardly wait for it—the ceremony, the
… whatever awaited her beyond it. None of it frightened her. None of it left
her with that pit of despair. Not with Cassian at her side, her friends at her
back, the House of Wind …
That had been Rhys’s last present before the ceremony: It was theirs.
Hers.
Since the House had decided it liked Nesta more than anyone else,
Rhys had given it to her and Cassian, with the caveat that the library
belonged to the priestesses and that the court still had use of the House for
formal occasions. It was good enough for Nesta—better than good.
She’d joined them at the river house one night to find a mating present
from Feyre waiting for her. Hanging on the wall in the grand entry.
A portrait of Nesta, holding the line at the Pass of Enalius. She’d let
Rhys see some parts of the Rite—but had no idea he’d asked not out of
curiosity, but to give his mate ideas for this.
Nesta had stared and stared at her portrait, hung between one of Feyre
and one of Elain, and hadn’t realized she was crying until Feyre had held her
tightly.
A home. The House of Wind, Velaris, this court … they were her home.
The thought kindled a kernel of light in her chest that had not extinguished,
even in the days after the Rite.
That kernel was still flickering as Nesta faced that day’s task. The task
that was so long overdue.
Feyre left the ornate black carriage at the base of the grassy hill,
carrying Nyx as the three of them scaled its soft slope. The city spread
before them, glowing in the spring sunshine, but Nesta’s eyes remained on
the lone stone atop the hill.
Her heart thundered, and she kept a step back as Feyre knelt before the
grave marker, showing Nyx to the stone. “Your grandson, Father,” she
whispered, voice thick. And then Feyre bowed her head, speaking too low
for Nesta or Elain, standing at Nesta’s side, to hear.After a few minutes, Feyre rose, letting her tears run, as holding the
babe kept her hands occupied. Elain went forward, whispered a few things to
their father’s grave, and then both sisters looked to Nesta, smiling
tentatively.
Feyre had asked this morning if Nesta wanted to come. To show their
father the baby.
And there had been no answer in Nesta’s heart except one.
So she nodded to her sisters to go on ahead, and they obeyed, easing
back down the grassy hill as Nesta lingered by the gravestone.
She searched for the words, for any explanation or apology, but none
came.
The sun was a warm hand on her shoulder, like the one that had
prevented the last of her power from vanishing, as if telling her that the
apology, the begging for forgiveness … it was no longer needed.
Her father had died for her, with love in his heart, and though she might
not have deserved it then … She would do all she could now to earn it. To
deserve not just his love, but that of those around her. Of Cassian.
Some days might indeed be difficult, but she’d do it. Fight for it.
Her father had died for her, with love in his heart, and Nesta held love
in her own heart as she pulled the small, carved rose from her pocket and set
it upon the gravestone. A permanent marker of the beauty and good he’d
tried to bring into the world.
Nesta brought her fingers to her lips, pressed a kiss to them, then laid
her hand upon the gravestone.
“Thank you,” she said, blinking back the stinging in her eyes. “Thank
you.”
A swift shadow passed overhead, followed by a whisper of wings, and
Nesta didn’t need to look to know who sailed high above, making sure all
was safe. That she was safe.
Busybody. But she blew Cassian a soft kiss, too.
Her mate. Her love. Her friend. The light within her chest brightened to
a radiant sun.
She found Feyre and Elain waiting halfway down the hill, Nyx now
dozing peacefully in Elain’s arms. Her sisters beamed, beckoning her to join.
And Nesta smiled back, her steps light as she hurried down the hill to
meet them.ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Coming to the end of this book was a journey years in the making in so
many ways, from the initial pages that I jotted down while working on A
Court of Wings and Ruin to the years since then spent drafting, revising,
refining. But perhaps most important, this book was a companion during my
own journey through the valleys and mountains of mental health, traveling
alongside me as I faced all the jagged bits inside myself. While Nesta’s story
is in no way a direct reflection of my own experiences, there were moments
in this book that I very much needed to write—not just for the sake of these
characters, but for myself. I hope some of those moments resonate, and will
remind you, dear reader, that you are loved, and that you are worthy of love,
no matter what.
I’m tremendously grateful to be surrounded by people in my
professional and personal life who have unflinchingly walked along those
hills and valleys with me, especially during such a tumultuous time for our
entire world.
To my son, Taran: you bring me joy, and strength, and such love that
my heart is overflowing with it every single day. Your laugh is the most
beautiful music in the world. (I’m writing that even though you just tried to
eat packing peanuts while I wasn’t looking.) I’m so honored to be your
mom, and I’m so proud of you. I love you, baby bunny.
To my husband, Josh: there are so many pieces of our story scattered
throughout all my books, but this one seems to have gotten the lion’s share.
From the moment I laid eyes on you in our dorm common room sixteen
years ago, I knew you’d be The One. Don’t ask me how, but you walked in,
and I just knew. But I still had no idea what a remarkable, wonderful path
we’d walk together—the places we’d see, the life we’d build, and the family
we’d create. Thank you for loving me through all of it.
To Annie, my fur-baby and most loyal companion: you are the best
sister imaginable to Taran, the best copilot while writing these books, and
the best cuddler after a long day of work. I adore your curly tail, your bat
ears, your unfailing sass—and your sweet, loving soul.To my friend and sister Jenn Kelly: I think when you finally read this
book, you’ll understand the impact your friendship has had on me, and how
much good you’ve brought into my life. You kept reaching out your hand to
me, and I will be forever grateful.
To my editor and fellow New York Times crossword fanatic, Noa
Wheeler: you are a genius. An actual genius, and a lifesaver, and the best
damn editor I’ve ever had the pleasure of working with. Thank you, thank
you, thank you for your incredible hard work, your clever and thoughtful
ideas, and for pushing me to be a better writer. I wake up every morning
truly excited to work with you and learn from you, and I can’t begin to tell
you how grateful I am for it.
To my agent, Robin Rue: thank you doesn’t seem adequate for all
you’ve done for me, and how much I adore working with you. You arrived at
the precise moment in my life when I needed you and your expertise the
most, and I thank the universe every single day that I have the honor of
calling you my agent. Though we’ve had a million Zoom calls by now, I
can’t wait to crack open a can of champagne (lol) with you in person one
day!
To Jill Gillett: you are my take-no-shit fairy godmother. Thank you for
working so tirelessly to make so many of my dreams come true—and for
being a brilliant, lovely human being.
To Victoria Cook: you are the epitome of a badass, and I’m so grateful
to have you in my corner.
To Maura Wogan: thank you, thank you, thank you for your wisdom,
hard work, and generosity.
To Cecilia de la Campa: you are one of the coolest and hardest-working
people in this industry. Thank you for championing me and my books!
To Beth Miller: you are an actual ray of sunshine and the most
organized person I’ve ever met. I bow down before your note-taking skills!
I’m so grateful for all that you do.
To the Writers House team: while we haven’t been working together for
very long, you’ve already surpassed my wildest expectations. I can’t imagine
my books in better hands—or with better people! I’m so proud to be a part
of your family!
To Laura Keefe: thank you for your hard work and the tips on toys to
occupy Taran! It’s so fun to work with you—thank you for everything!To the entire global team at Bloomsbury—Nigel Newton, Emma
Hopkin, Kathleen Farrar, Rebecca McNally, Cindy Loh, Valentina Rice,
Nicola Hill, Amanda Shipp, Marie Coolman, Lucy Mackay-Sim, Nicole
Jarvis, Emily Fisher, Emilie Chambeyron, Patti Ratchford, Emma Ewbank,
John Candell, Donna Gauthier, Melissa Kavonic, Diane Aronson, Nick
Sweeney, Claire Henry, Nicholas Church, Fabia Ma, Daniel O’Connor,
Brigid Nelson, Sarah McLean, Sarah Knight, Liz Bray, Genevieve Nelsson,
Adam Kirkman, Jennifer Gonzalez, Laura Pennock, Elizabeth Tzetzo, and
Valerie Esposito: Thank you for your incredible hard work.
To Kaitlin Severini: thanks so much for your meticulous copyediting!
To Christine Ma: thank you for your eagle-eyed proofing.
To my publishers around the world: I am deeply grateful for all of your
support and all the effort you’ve put into getting these books into the hands
of readers around the world.
To Jillian Stein: you are such fun to work with, and one of the most
awesome people I know. Thank you for all the hard work—and for being
you!
To Tamar Rydzinski: thank you so much for your dedication and
kindness.
To Nick Odorisio, actual Jedi master. Thank you for walking me
through everything from balance to the importance of the feet to the basics
of Jedi master. So much of your wisdom made its way into this book (along
with my complaints about crunches and planks and my lack of balance)!
To Jason Chen: thank you for your article on how to throw a punch—
and to Aiman Farooq, Keith Horan, Chris Waguespack, and Pete Carvill for
the invaluable insight and tips provided in it. If I’m ever in a bar fight, I hope
I can at remember at least some of your advice! If I’ve gotten any of the
information wrong in this book, the fault is entirely mine.
Thank you to Anna Victoria, whose workout app (Fit Body) helped me
experience so much of Nesta’s physical transformation firsthand. I never
realized how much it would mean to me to be able to do a single push-up
(though I could do without those Bulgarian squats!). And thank you to
Headspace, for the calm and rest I found through meditating.
To Dr. C: there’s so much that I would like to say to you, and I know all
of it will fall short in conveying my gratitude. But I’ll settle with a thank-you
for how much you’ve helped me.I would like to extend my deepest thanks to Mahu Whenua in New
Zealand. Walking the mountain trails, listening to the roar of the river,
watching the sun shift across the land—it all inspired Nesta and Cassian’s
hike. (Though I nearly snapped my ankle a few times while attempting to
write down notes and keep walking!) Your property is my favorite place in
the world, where I experienced a level of peace and clarity that I still can’t
quite explain. Thank you and the Maori people for the healing these lands
brought to my weary soul.
To Lynette Noni: thank you for the friendship that brightens my days,
and for being the cleverest critique partner on the planet. I don’t know what
I’d do without you!
To my friend Steph Brown: I love you. That is all. (Okay, it’s totally not
all, but you know how I feel about you by this point!)
To Louisse Ang and Laura Ashforth: I’ve said it about a thousand
times, but I want you to know how much I adore you and how lucky I am to
know both of you.
My wonderful parents and family: it’s been so long since we’ve been
able to see each other in person, but I’ve felt your love even from hundreds
of miles away. I don’t know what I’d do without you. And to my in-laws,
Linda and Dennis: thank you for the chocolate (even when I said I didn’t
want any!), for being such doting grandparents, and for the unconditional
love.
And lastly, to all of my readers: your kindness, generosity, and support
mean the world to me. Thank you for taking these characters into your
hearts, and for allowing me to do what I love most for a living. I am forever
grateful.