2
Cassian felt as if he’d loosed an arrow at a sleeping firedrake. Nesta,
bundled in that worn blue coat, with her stained shoes and her wrinkled gray
dress, looked him over and demanded, “What? ”
“As of this meeting,” Feyre clarified, “you’re moving into the House of
Wind.” She nodded eastward, toward the palace carved into the mountains at
the far end of the city. “Rhys and I have decided that each morning, you will
train with Cassian in Windhaven, in the Illyrian Mountains. After lunch, for
the rest of the afternoon, you will be assigned work in the library beneath the
House of Wind. But the apartment, the seedy taverns—all of that is over,
Nesta.”
Nesta’s fingers curled into fists in her lap. But she said nothing.
He should have positioned himself beside her, instead of allowing his
High Lady to sit on that couch within arm’s reach of her. No matter that
Feyre already had a shield around herself courtesy of Rhys—it had been
there at breakfast, too. Part of my ongoing training, Feyre had muttered
when Cassian asked about the ironclad defenses, so strong they even masked
her scent. Rhys is having Helion teach him about truly impenetrable shields,
so of course I have the pleasure of being the test subject. I’m supposed to try
to break this one to see if Rhys is following Helion’s instructions correctly.
It’s a new kind of insanity.
But one that had proved fortuitous. Even if they didn’t know what
Nesta’s power could do against ordinary magic.
Rhys seemed to be thinking the same thing, and Cassian poised himself
to jump between the two sisters. His Siphons flared in warning as Rhys’s
power rumbled.
Cassian had no doubt Feyre could defend herself against most
opponents, but Nesta …
He wasn’t entirely sure Feyre would hit back, even if Nesta launched
that terrible power at her. And he hated that he didn’t know if Nesta wouldsink low enough to do it. That things had become so bad that he even
considered the possibility.
“I’m not moving to the House of Wind,” Nesta said. “And I’m not
training at that miserable village. Certainly not with him.” She threw him a
look that was nothing short of venomous.
“It’s not up for negotiation,” Amren said, breaking her vow to keep out
of the discussion as much as possible for the second time in so many
minutes. The eldest of the Archeron sisters had a talent for getting under
everyone’s skin. Yet Nesta and Amren had always shared a bond—an
understanding.
Until their fight on the barge.
“Like hell it isn’t,” Nesta challenged, but didn’t attempt to stand as
Rhys’s eyes flickered with cold warning.
“Your apartment is being packed as we speak,” Amren said, picking at
a speck of lint on her silk blouse. “By the time you return, it will be empty.
Your clothes are already being sent to the House, though I doubt they will be
suitable for training at Windhaven.” A pointed glance at Nesta’s gray dress,
baggier on her than it had once been. Did Nesta notice the faint glimmer of
worry in Amren’s smoky eyes—understand how rare it was?
More than that, did Nesta understand that this meeting wasn’t to
condemn her, but instead came from a place of concern? Her simmering
stare told him she considered this purely an attack.
“You can’t do this,” Nesta said. “I’m not a member of this court.”
“You seem to have no qualms about spending this court’s money,”
Amren countered. “During the war with Hybern, you accepted the position
as our human emissary. You never resigned from the role, so formal law still
considers you an official member of this court.” A wave of her small fingers
and a book floated toward Nesta before thumping onto the cushions beside
her. That was about the extent of the magic Amren now possessed—
ordinary, unremarkable High Fae magic. “Page two hundred thirty-six, if
you want to check.”
Amren had combed through their laws for this? Cassian didn’t even
know such a rule existed—he’d accepted the position Rhys had offered him
without question, not caring what he was agreeing to, only that he and Rhys
and Azriel would be together. That they’d have a home that no one could
ever take from them. Until Amarantha.He’d never stop being grateful for it: for the High Lady mere feet from
him, who had saved them all from Amarantha’s rule, who had returned his
brother to him and then brought Rhys out of the darkness that lingered.
“So here are your options, girl,” Amren said, delicate chin rising.
Cassian didn’t miss the look between Feyre and Rhys: the utter agony in his
High Lady’s face at the ultimatum he knew was to be presented to Nesta,
and the half-restrained rage in Rhys’s that his mate was in such pain because
of it. He’d already seen that exchanged look once today—had hoped he
wouldn’t see it again.
Cassian had been eating an early breakfast with them this morning
when Rhys had gotten the bill for Nesta’s night out. When Rhys had read
each item aloud. Bottles of rare wine, exotic foods, gambling debts …
Feyre had stared at her plate until silent tears dripped into her
scrambled eggs.
Cassian knew there’d been previous conversations—fights—about
Nesta. About whether to give her time to heal herself, as they’d all believed
would happen at first, or to step in. But as Feyre wept at the table, he knew it
was a breaking of some sort. An acceptance of a hope failed.
It had required all of Cassian’s training, every horror he’d endured on
and off the battlefield, to keep that same crushing sorrow from his own face.
Rhys had laid a comforting hand on Feyre’s, squeezing gently before he
looked at Azriel, and then Cassian, and laid out his plan. As if he’d had it
waiting a long, long while.
Elain had walked in halfway through. She’d been toiling in the estate
gardens since dawn, and had been solemn as Rhys filled her in. Feyre had
been unable to say a word. But Elain’s gaze remained steady as she listened
to Rhys.
Then Rhys summoned Amren from her attic apartment across the river.
Feyre had insisted that the order come through Amren, not Rhys, to preserve
any sort of familial bond between Rhys and her sister.
Cassian didn’t think there was one to begin with, but Rhys had agreed,
moving to kneel at Feyre’s side, wiping away the remnants of her tears,
kissing her temple. They’d all left the table then, giving their High Lord and
Lady privacy.
Cassian took to the skies moments later, letting the roaring wind drown
out every thought in his head, letting its briskness cool his pounding heart.
This meeting, what was to come—none of it would be easy.Amren, they’d agreed, had always been one of the few people who
could get through to Nesta. Whom Nesta seemed to fear, if only slightly.
Who understood, somehow, what Nesta was, deep down.
She’d been the only one Nesta had truly spoken to after the war.
It didn’t seem like a coincidence that in the past month, since they’d
argued on that boat, Nesta’s behavior had deteriorated further. That she now
looked like … this.
“One,” Amren said, raising a slender finger, “you can move up to the
House of Wind, train with Cassian in the mornings, and work in the library
in the afternoons. You will not be a prisoner. But there will be no one to fly
or winnow you down to the city. If you want to venture into the city proper,
by all means, go ahead. That is, if you can brave the ten thousand steps down
from the House.” Amren’s eyes glittered with the challenge. “And if you can
somehow find two coppers to rub together to buy yourself a drink. But if you
follow this plan, we will reevaluate where and how you live in a few
months.”
“And my other option?” Nesta spat.
Mother above, this woman—female. She was no longer human. Cassian
could think of very, very few people who would defy Amren and Rhys.
Certainly not in the same room. Certainly not with such venom.
“You go back to the human lands.”
Amren had suggested a few days in a dungeon in the Hewn City, but
Feyre had simply said that the human world would be more than enough of a
prison for someone like Nesta.
Someone like Feyre, too. And Elain.
All three sisters were now High Fae with considerable powers, though
only Feyre’s were let loose. Even Amren had no idea whether Elain’s and
Nesta’s powers remained. The Cauldron had granted them unique powers,
different from other High Fae: the gift of sight to the former, and the gift of
… Cassian didn’t know what to call Nesta’s gift. Didn’t know whether it was
a gift at all—or something she had taken. The silver fire, that sense of death
looming, the raw power he’d witnessed as it blasted into the King of Hybern.
Whatever it was, it existed beyond the usual array of High Fae gifts.
The human world was behind them. They could never return. Even
though all three of them were war heroes, each in their own right, the
humans wouldn’t care. Would stay far, far away, if they weren’t provoked to
violence. So, yes: Nesta might technically be able to return to the humanlands, but she would find no companionship there, no warm welcome or
town that would accept her. Wherever she was able to find a place to live,
she would be essentially housebound, confined to the grounds of her home
for fear of human prejudices.
Nesta turned to Feyre, lips pulling back from her teeth. “And these are
my only options?”
“I—” Feyre caught herself before she could say the rest—I’m sorry—
and squared her shoulders. Became the High Lady of the Night Court, even
without her black crown, even in Rhys’s old sweater. “Yes.”
“You have no right.”
“I—”
Nesta erupted. “You dragged me into this mess, this horrible place. You
are why I am like this, why I am stuck here—”
Feyre flinched. Rhys’s rage became palpable, a pulse of night-kissed
power that tightened Cassian’s gut, every warrior’s instinct beaten into him
coming to attention.
“That’s enough,” Feyre breathed.
Nesta blinked.
Feyre swallowed, but didn’t balk. “That is enough. You’re moving up to
the House, you’re going to train and work, and I don’t care what vitriol you
spew my way. You’re doing it.”
“Elain needs to be able to see me—”
“Elain agreed to this hours ago. She’s currently packing your things.
They’ll be waiting for you when you arrive.”
Nesta recoiled.
Feyre didn’t relent. “Elain knows how to contact you. If she wishes to
visit you at the House of Wind, she is free to do so. One of us will gladly
take her up there.”
The words hung between them, so heavy and awkward that Cassian
said, “I promise not to bite.”
Nesta’s upper lip curled back as she faced him. “I suppose this was your
idea—”
“It was,” he lied with a grin. “We’re going to have a wonderful time
together.”
They’d likely kill each other.
“I want to speak to my sister. Alone,” Nesta ordered.Cassian glanced at Rhys, who leveled an assessing stare at Nesta.
Cassian had been on the receiving end of that same stare a few times over
the centuries and did not envy Nesta one bit. But the High Lord of the Night
Court nodded. “We’ll be in the hall.”
Cassian’s fist tightened at the implied insult that they didn’t trust her
enough to go farther than that, despite the shield on Feyre. Even if the
rational, warrior-minded part of him agreed. Nesta’s eyes flared, and he
knew she’d understood it, too.
From the way Feyre’s jaw tightened, he suspected she wasn’t pleased at
the subtle jab—it wouldn’t help convince Nesta that they were doing this to
help her. Rhys would be getting the verbal beating he deserved later.
Cassian waited until Rhys and Amren rose before following them out.
True to his word, Rhys walked three steps down the hall, away from the
wood doors spelled against eavesdroppers, and leaned against the wall.
Doing the same, Cassian said to Amren, “I didn’t even know we had
laws like that about court membership.”
“We don’t.” Amren picked at her red-painted nails.
He swore under his breath.
Rhys smiled wryly. But Cassian frowned toward the shut double doors
and prayed Nesta didn’t do anything stupid.
Nesta held her spine ramrod straight, back aching with the effort. She had
never hated anyone so much as she hated all of them now. Save for the King
of Hybern, she supposed.
They’d all been discussing her, deeming her unfit and unchecked, and
—
“You didn’t care before,” Nesta said. “Why now?”
Feyre toyed with her silver-and-star-sapphire wedding ring. “I told you:
it wasn’t that I didn’t care. We—everyone, I mean—had multiple
conversations about this. About you. We— I decided that giving you time
and space would be best.”
“And what did Elain have to say about it?” Part of her didn’t want to
know.
Feyre’s mouth tightened. “This isn’t about Elain. And last I checked,
you barely saw her, either.”
Nesta hadn’t realized they were paying such close attention.She’d never explained to Feyre—had never found the words to explain
—why she’d put such distance between them all. Elain had been stolen by
the Cauldron and saved by Azriel and Feyre. Yet the terror still gripped
Nesta, waking and asleep: the memory of how it had felt in those moments
after hearing the Cauldron’s seductive call and realizing it had been for
Elain, not for her or Feyre. How it had felt to find Elain’s tent empty, to see
that blue cloak discarded.
Things had only gotten worse from there.
You have your lives, and I have mine, she’d said to Elain last Winter
Solstice. She’d known how deeply it would wound her sister. But she
couldn’t bear it—the bone-deep horror that lingered. The flashes of that
discarded cloak or the Cauldron’s chill waters or Cassian crawling toward
her or her father’s neck snapping—
Feyre said carefully, “For what it’s worth, I was hoping you’d turn
yourself around. I wanted to give you space to do it, since you seem to lash
out at everyone who comes close enough, but you didn’t even try.”
Perhaps you can find it in yourself to try a little harder this year.
Cassian’s words from nine months ago still rang fresh in Nesta’s mind,
uttered on an ice-slick street blocks from here.
Try? It was all she could think to say.
I know that’s a foreign word to you.
Then her rage had ruptured from her. Why should I have to try to do
anything? I was dragged into this world of yours, this court.
Then go somewhere else.
She’d swallowed her own response: I have nowhere to go.
It was the truth. She had no desire to return to the human realm. Had
never felt at home there, not really. And this strange, new Fae world … She
might have accepted her different, altered body, that she was now
permanently changed and her humanity gone, but she didn’t know where she
belonged in this world, either. The thought was one she tried to drown in
liquor and music and cards, as often as she used those things to quell that
writhing power deep inside.
Feyre continued, “All you have done is help yourself to our money.”
“Your mate’s money.” Another flash of hurt. Nesta’s blood sang at the
direct blow. “Thank you so much for taking time out of your homemaking
and shopping to remember me.”“I built a room in this house for you. I asked you to help me decorate it.
You told me to piss off.”
“Why would I ever want to stay in this house?” Where she could see
precisely how happy they were, where none of them seemed remotely as
decimated as she’d been by the war. She’d come so close to being a part of it
—of that circle. Had held their hands as they’d stood together on the
morning of the final battle and believed they might all make it.
Then she’d learned precisely how mercilessly it might be ripped away.
What the cost of hope and joy and love truly was. She never wanted to face
it again. Never wanted to endure what she’d felt in that forest clearing, with
the King of Hybern chuckling, blood everywhere. Her power hadn’t been
enough to save them that day. She supposed she’d been punishing it for
failing her ever since, keeping it locked up tight inside her.
Feyre said, “Because you’re my sister.”
“Yes, and you’re always sacrificing for us, your sad little human family
—”
“You spent five hundred gold marks last night!” Feyre exploded,
shooting to her feet to pace in front of the hearth. “Do you know how much
money that is? Do you know how embarrassed I was when we got the bill
this morning and my friends—my family—had to hear all about it?”
Nesta hated that word. The term Feyre used to describe her court. As if
things had been so miserable with the Archeron family that Feyre had
needed to find another one. Had chosen her own. Nesta’s nails bit into her
palms, the pain overriding that of her tightening chest.
Feyre went on, “And to hear not just the amount of the bill, but what
you spent it on—”
“Oh, so it’s about you saving face—”
“It is about how it reflects upon me, upon Rhys, and upon my court
when my damned sister spends our money on wine and gambling and does
nothing to contribute to this city! If my sister cannot be controlled, then why
should we have the right to rule over anyone else?”
“I am not a thing to be controlled by you,” Nesta said icily. Everything
in her life, from the moment she was born, had been controlled by other
people. Things happened to her; anytime she tried to exert control, she’d
been thwarted at every turn—and she hated that even more than the King of
Hybern.“That’s why you’re going to train at Windhaven. You will learn to
control yourself.”
“I won’t go.”
“You’re going, even if you have to be tied up and hauled there. You will
follow Cassian’s lessons, and you will do whatever work Clotho requires in
the library.” Nesta blocked out the memory—of the dark depths of that
library, the ancient monster that had dwelled there. It had saved them from
Hybern’s cronies, yes, but … She refused to think of it. “You will respect
her, and the other priestesses in the library,” Feyre said, “and you will never
give them a moment’s trouble. Any free time is yours to spend as you wish.
In the House.”
Hot rage pumped through her, so loud Nesta could barely hear the real
fire before which her sister paced. Was glad of the roaring in her head when
the sound of wood cracking as it burned was so much like her father’s
breaking neck that she couldn’t stand to light a fire in her own home.
“You had no right to close up my apartment, to take my things—”
“What things? A few clothes and some rotten food.” Nesta didn’t have
the chance to wonder how Feyre knew that. Not as her sister said, “I’m
having that entire building condemned.”
“You wouldn’t dare.”
“It’s done. Rhys already visited the landlord. It will be torn down and
rebuilt as a shelter for families still displaced by the war.”
Nesta tried to master her uneven breathing. One of the few choices
she’d made for herself, stripped away. Feyre didn’t seem to care. Feyre had
always been her own master. Always got whatever she wished. And now, it
seemed, Feyre would be granted this wish, too. Nesta seethed, “I never want
to speak to you again.”
“That’s fine. You can talk to Cassian and the priestesses instead.”
There was no insulting her way out of it. “I won’t be your prisoner—”
“No. You can go wherever you wish. As Amren said, you are free to
leave the House. If you can manage those ten thousand steps.” Feyre’s eyes
blazed. “But I’m done paying for you to destroy yourself.”
Destroy herself. The silence hummed in Nesta’s ears, rippled across her
flames, suffocating them, stilling the unbearable wrath. Utter, frozen silence.
She’d learned to live with the silence that had started the moment her
father had died, the silence that had begun crushing her when she’d gone to
his study at their half-wrecked manor days later and found one of hispathetic little wood carvings. She’d wanted to scream and scream, but there
had been so many people around. She’d held herself together until the
meeting with all those war heroes had ended. Then she’d let herself fall.
Straight into this silent pit.
“The others are waiting,” Feyre said. “Elain should be done by now.”
“I want to talk to her.”
“She’ll come visit when she’s ready.”
Nesta held her sister’s stare.
Feyre’s eyes gleamed. “You think I don’t know why you’ve pushed
even Elain away?”
Nesta didn’t want to talk about it. About the fact that it had always been
her and Elain. And, somehow, now it had become Feyre and Elain instead.
Elain had chosen Feyre and these people, and left her behind. Amren had
done the same. She’d made it clear on the barge.
Nesta didn’t care that during the war with Hybern, her own tentative
bond had formed with Feyre, forged over common goals: protect Elain, save
the human lands. They were excuses, Nesta had realized, to paper over what
now boiled and raged in her heart.
Nesta didn’t bother replying, and Feyre didn’t speak again as she
departed.
There was nothing to bind them together anymore.CHAPTER
