25
“Stop looking so nervous,” Cassian muttered out of the corner of his mouth.
“I’m not nervous,” Nesta muttered back, even as she bounced on her
feet, trying not to stare toward the open archway as the clock ticked toward
nine.
“Just relax.” He straightened his jacket.
“You’re the one fidgeting,” she hissed.
“Because you’re making me fidget.”
Steps scuffed on the stone beyond the archway, and Nesta’s breath
rushed from her in a wave she didn’t realize she was holding back as Gwyn’s
coppery-brown hair appeared. In the sunlight, the color of her hair was
extraordinary, strands of gold glinting, and her teal eyes were a near-perfect
match to the stones the other priestesses wore.
Gwyn beheld them standing in the center of the ring and stopped short.
The tang of her fear set Nesta approaching. “Hello.”
Gwyn’s hands were shaking as she took another step into the ring and
peered into the open bowl of the sky.
The first time she’d been outside—truly outside—in years.
Cassian, to his credit, moved to the rack of wooden practice weapons
that he’d claimed they wouldn’t be using for months, and pretended to adjust
them.
Gwyn swallowed. “I, um—I realized on the way up here that I don’t
have proper clothes.” She gestured to her pale robes. “I suspect these will
not be ideal.”
Cassian said without looking over, “I can teach you in the robes, if you
wish. Whatever’s most comfortable.”
Gwyn offered him a tight smile. “I’ll see how today’s lesson goes and
then decide. We wear the robes mostly from tradition, not strict rules.” She
met Nesta’s gaze again as she smiled. “I forgot how it feels to have the full
sun upon my head.” She peered up again. “Forgive me if I spend some time
gawking at the sky.”“Of course,” Nesta said. She hadn’t encountered Gwyn yesterday after
seeing that she’d signed up for this morning’s lesson, but she’d been almost
afraid to—worried that one accidentally uttered sour remark would make
Gwyn reconsider.
Words stalled in Nesta’s throat, but Cassian seemed to anticipate that.
“All right. No more chitchat. Nes, show our new friend—Gwyn, is it? I’m
Cassian. Nes, show her your feet.”
“Feet?” Gwyn’s copper brows rose.
Nesta rolled her eyes. “You’ll see.”
Gwyn grasped the concept of grounding through her feet better than Nesta
had, and certainly had no issues with dropping her weight into her right hip
and other things Nesta had worked to correct for three weeks. Even with the
robes, it was clear that Gwyn was built lithe and lean, accustomed to the
casual grace of the Fae that Nesta was only learning.
She’d expected to have to coax her friend, but once Gwyn overcame
her initial trepidation, she was a willing participant, and a merry companion.
The priestess laughed at her own mistakes, and did not bristle at corrections
from Cassian.
By the end of the lesson, though, Gwyn’s robe was damp with sweat,
tendrils of hair curling around her flushed face. Cassian ordered them to
drink some water before their cooldown.
As Gwyn poured herself a glass, she said, “At the temple in Sangravah,
we had a set of ancient movements that we would go through every sunrise.
Not for battle training, but for calming the mind. We did cooldowns after
those, too, though we called them groundings. The movements took us out
of our bodies, in a way. Let us commune with the Mother. The groundings
settled us back into the present world.”
“Why did you sign up for this, then?” Nesta drank the glass Gwyn
extended. “If you already have mind-calming exercises you’re accustomed
to?”
“Because I don’t ever want to feel powerless again,” Gwyn said softly,
and all those easy smiles and bright laughs were gone. Only stark, pained
honesty shone in her remarkable eyes.
Nesta swallowed, and though instinct told her to pull away, she said
quietly, “Me too.”The bell above the shop door jangled as Nesta entered, brushing off the
snowflakes that had stuck to the shoulders of her cloak. Cassian had needed
to go up to the Illyrian Mountains after their second lesson with Gwyn, and
to her surprise, he had asked Nesta to join him. He’d already cleared it with
Clotho that she’d be a few hours late for her work at the library. He hadn’t
explained why beyond a casual comment about getting her out of the House
and into the fresh air.
But she’d accepted, and hadn’t told him why, either. Cassian hadn’t
even seemed curious when she requested he leave her at Windhaven so she
could go shopping. Perhaps a spark had gleamed in his eye, as if he’d
guessed, but he’d been distant, quiet.
Given that Cassian was up here to meet with Eris, she didn’t blame
him. He’d left Nesta by the fountain in the center of the freezing village,
making sure she knew that if she needed to warm up, Rhys’s mother’s house
was unlocked.
Velaris was still gripped in summer’s hand, autumn just barely tugging
it away, but Windhaven had already yielded completely to winter’s embrace.
Nesta wasted little time in entering the shop.
“Nesta,” Emerie said by way of greeting, peering over a young-looking
male’s broad shoulder and wings from where she stood helping him at the
counter. “It’s good to see you.”
Was that relief in her voice? Nesta made sure the door behind her was
firmly latched before striding in, the snow on her boots leaving muddy
tracks alongside those left by Emerie’s customer.
The male half-turned toward Nesta, revealing a blandly handsome face,
dark hair tied back at the nape of his neck, and glassy brown eyes. The
asshole was drunk. Asshole seemed to be the correct term, since Emerie’s
rigid posture revealed distaste and wariness.
Nesta sauntered up to the counter, giving the male a once-over that she
knew usually made people want to throttle her. From the way he stiffened,
swaying slightly on his booted feet, she knew it’d worked. “Good morning,”
she said cheerfully to Emerie. Another thing males seemed to detest: being
ignored by a female.
“Wait your turn, witch,” the male grumbled, turning back to the counter
and Emerie.Emerie crossed her arms. “I think we’re done here, Bellius.”
“We’re done when I say we’re done.” The words were half-slurred.
“I have an appointment,” Nesta said, leveling a cool glance at him. She
sniffed at the male. Her nose crinkled. “And you seem to need an
appointment with a bath.”
He turned fully to her, muscled shoulders pushing back. Even with the
glazed expression, ire boiled in his stare. “Do you know who I am?”
“A drunk fool wasting my time,” Nesta said. Two Siphons—a blue
darker than Azriel’s—sat atop the backs of his large hands. “Get out.”
Emerie stilled, as if bracing herself for the retaliation. But she said
before the male could reply, “We’ll discuss this later, Bellius.”
“My father sent me to convey a message.”
“Message received,” Emerie said, chin lifting. “And my answer is the
same: this store is mine. If he wants one so badly, he can open his own.”
“Hateful bitch,” Bellius bit out, swaying back a step.
Nesta laughed, cold and hollow. Fae and humans had more in common
than she’d realized. How many times had she witnessed her father’s debtors
darkening their doorstep to shake him down for money he didn’t have? And
then there had been the time when they had gone beyond threats. When
they’d left her father’s leg shattered. Any sense of safety shattered with it.
“Get out,” Nesta said again, pointing to the door as Bellius bristled at
her fading laughter. “Do yourself a favor and get out.”
Bellius rose to his full height, wings flaring. “Or what?”
Nesta picked at her nails. “I don’t think you want to find out the or
what part.”
Bellius opened his mouth, but Emerie said, “Your father now has my
answer, Bellius. I suggest you get some water from the fountain before you
fly home.”
Bellius only spat onto the floorboards and stalked for the exit, throwing
Nesta a hazy glare as he slammed the door behind himself.
In silence, Nesta and Emerie watched him stagger into the snow-swept
street and spread his wings. Nesta frowned as he shot into the sky.
“Friend of yours?” Nesta asked, facing Emerie at the counter again.
“My cousin.” Emerie cringed. “His father is my uncle. On my father’s
side.” She added before Nesta could ask, “Bellius is a young, arrogant idiot.
He’s due to participate in the Blood Rite this spring, and his arrogance has
only grown these past months as he anticipates becoming a true warrior.He’s skilled enough that he got placed on a scouting unit to the continent—
and just returned to celebrate his accomplishment, apparently.” Emerie
wiped at an invisible speck of dirt on the counter. “I didn’t expect him to be
drunk midday, though. That’s a new low for him.” Color stained her cheeks.
“I’m sorry you had to witness it.”
Nesta shrugged. “Dealing with drunk fools is my specialty.”
Emerie kept fiddling with the imaginary spot on the counter. “Our
fathers were two of a kind. They believed children should be harshly
disciplined for any infraction. There was little room for mercy or
understanding.”
Nesta pursed her lips. “I know the type.” Her mother’s mother had been
the same way before she’d died of a deep-rooted cough that had turned into a
deadly infection. Nesta had been seven when the stern-faced dame who had
insisted on being called Grandmamma had beaten her palms raw with a ruler
for missteps in her dancing lessons. Worthless, clumsy girl. You’re a waste of
my time. Maybe this will help you remember to pay attention to my orders.
Nesta had only felt relief when the old beast had died. Elain, who’d
been spared the cruelties of Grandmamma’s tutelage, had wept and dutifully
laid flowers at her grave—one soon joined by their mother’s stone marker.
Feyre had been too young to understand, but Nesta had never bothered to lay
flowers for her grandmamma. Not when Nesta bore a scar near her left
thumb from one of the woman’s nastier punishments. Nesta had only left
flowers for her mother, whose grave she had visited more often than she
cared to admit.
She hadn’t once visited her father’s grave outside Velaris.
“Are you all right?” Nesta asked Emerie at last. “Will Bellius return?”
“No,” Emerie said, shaking her head. “I mean, I’m fine. But no—he’s a
member of the Ironcrest war-band. Their lands are a few hours’ flight from
here. He won’t return anytime soon.” She shrugged. “I get these little visits
from my uncle’s family every now and then. Nothing I can’t handle. Though
Bellius was a new one. I guess they think he’s adult enough now to bully
me.” Nesta opened her mouth, but Emerie offered her another half smile and
changed the subject. “You look well. Far healthier than when I saw you …
What was it now? Almost three weeks ago.” She gave Nesta an assessing
glance. “You never came back.”
“We moved our training to Velaris,” Nesta explained.“I was about to write to you before Bellius interrupted me. I asked
about making leathers with fleece inside.” Emerie leaned her forearms on the
immaculate counter. “It can be done, but it’s not cheap.”
“Then it’s beyond my means, but thank you for finding out anyway.”
“I could order it and let you pay it off as you’re able.”
It was a generous offer. Far beyond the kindness anyone had ever
shown Nesta in the human realm, when her father had been trying to sell his
wood carvings for a few pitiful coppers.
Only Feyre had kept them fed and clothed, earning scant amounts for
the pelts and meat she hunted. She’d kept them alive. The last time she’d
hunted for them, the food had run out the day before. If Feyre hadn’t
returned home with meat that night, they either would have had to starve to
death or beg in the village.
Nesta had told herself that day that Tomas would take her in, if
necessary. Maybe even Elain, too. But his family had been hateful, with too
many mouths to feed already. His father would have refused to feed her,
without question. She’d been prepared to offer the only thing she had to
barter to Tomas, if it would have kept Elain from starving. Would have sold
her body on the street to anyone who’d pay her enough to feed her sister. Her
body had meant nothing to her—nothing, she’d told herself as she’d felt her
options closing in. Elain meant everything.
But Feyre had come back with that food. And then vanished over the
wall.
Three days afterward, Nesta broke it off with Tomas. Enraged, he’d
launched himself at her, pinning her against the enormous woodpile stacked
along the barn wall. Spiteful whore, he’d growled. You think you’re better
than me? Acting like a queen when you haven’t got shit. She’d never forget
the sound of her dress tearing, the greed in his eyes as his hands pawed at
her skirts, trying to raise them as he fumbled with the buckle on his belt.
Only pure, undiluted terror and survival instinct had saved her. She’d
let him get close, let him think her strength had failed, and then clamped her
teeth down on his ear. And ripped.
He’d screamed, but he’d loosened his grip on her—just enough that
she’d broken free and scrambled through the snow, spitting his blood out of
her mouth, and did not stop running until she’d reached the cottage.
And then word had come of their father’s ships: found, with all the
wealth intact.Nesta knew it was a lie. The trunks of jewels and gold had not come
from that doomed shipment, but from Tamlin, payment for the human
woman he’d stolen away. To help the family he’d doomed to die without
Feyre’s hunting.
Nesta shook off the memory. “It’s all right. But thank you.”
Emerie rubbed her long, slender hands together. “It’s freezing, and I’m
about to take my lunch break. Would you like to join me?”
Beyond Cassian, no one had invited her to dine in a long time. She’d
given them no reason to. But there it was: an honest, simple offer. From
someone who had no idea how terrible she was.
Having lunch with Emerie was an indulgence; it was only a matter of
time until the female learned more about Nesta. Until she heard every
horrible thing, and then the invitations would stop. Had she been any better
than Bellius, drunk and simmering with hatred for months? If Emerie knew,
she’d kick her out of this shop, too.
But for now, neither rumor nor truth had reached Emerie.
“I would like that,” Nesta said, and meant it.
The back room of Emerie’s shop was as immaculate as the front, though
crates of extra stock were stacked against one wall. Two windows looked out
onto a snow-covered garden, and beyond that, the nearest mountain peak
squatted, blocking the gray sky with its rocky bulk.
A small kitchen lay to the right, little more than a hearth and a counter
and a small worktable. A few wooden chairs sat around it, and Nesta
realized the table was also the dining area. A place setting had been laid
there for one person.
“Just you?” Nesta asked as Emerie went to the wood counter and
gathered a platter of roast beef and a dish of roasted carrots. She set them on
the table before Nesta and grabbed a loaf of bread, along with a bowl of
butter.
“Just me.” Emerie opened a cabinet to retrieve a second place setting.
“No mate or husband to bother me.”
She spoke a bit tensely, like there was more to it than that, but Nesta
said, “Me neither.”
Emerie threw her a wry look. “What about that handsome General
Cassian?”Nesta blocked out the memory of his head between her thighs, his
tongue at her entrance, sliding into her. “Not a chance,” Nesta said, but
Emerie’s eyes glimmered with knowing.
“Well, it’s nice to meet another female who’s not obsessed with
marriage and baby-making,” Emerie said, sitting at the table and gesturing
for Nesta to do the same. She’d put some roast beef, carrots, and bread onto
Nesta’s plate, and slid the bowl of butter to her. “It’s cold, but it’s meant to
be eaten that way. I usually stop for lunch only long enough to feed myself.”
Nesta dug in and grunted. “It’s delicious.” She took another bite. “Did
you make this?”
“Who else would? We don’t have any sort of food shops here except the
butcher.” Emerie pointed with her fork to the garden beyond the building. “I
grow my own vegetables. These carrots came from that garden.”
Nesta took a bite. “They have a lovely flavor.” Butter and thyme and
something bright …
“It’s all in the spices. Which are in short supply around here,
unfortunately. Illyrians don’t particularly know or care about them.”
“My father used to be a merchant,” Nesta said, a chasm yawning open
in her at the words. She cleared her throat. “He traded spices from all over
the world. I can still remember the smell in his offices—it was like a
thousand different personalities all crammed into one space.”
Feyre had loved to hang about their father’s office, more fascinated in
the trade than what Nesta had been taught was acceptable for a wealthy girl.
Feyre had always been that way: completely uninterested in the rules that
governed their lives, uninterested in becoming a true lady who would help
advance their family’s fortunes through an advantageous marriage.
They had rarely agreed on anything. And those visits to their father’s
offices had resulted in a simmering resentment between them. Feyre had
tried to get her interested, had shown her so many rarities to tempt her. But
Nesta had barely listened to her sister’s explanations, mostly eyeing up their
father’s business partners for whether their sons might be a good match.
Feyre had been disgusted. It had made Nesta even more determined.
“Did you travel with him?”
“No, my two sisters and I remained home. It wasn’t appropriate for us
to travel the world.”
“I always forget how similar human ideas of propriety are to the
Illyrians’.” Emerie took another bite. “Would you have wanted to see theworld, if you could?”
“It was half a world, wasn’t it? With the wall in place.”
“Still better than nothing.”
Nesta chuckled. “You’re right.” She considered Emerie’s question. If
her father had offered to bring them on one of his ships, to let them see
strange and distant shores, would they have gone? Elain had always wanted
to visit the continent to study the tulips and other famed flowers, but her
imagination had stretched no further. Feyre had talked once about the
glorious art in the continent’s museums and private estates. But that was all
the western edge of it. Beyond that, the continent was vast. And to the south,
another continent sprawled. Would she have gone?
“I would have put up a fight,” Nesta said at last, “but in the end, I’d
have yielded to curiosity.”
“Do you still have any family in the human lands?”
“My mother died when I was twelve, and my father … He did not
survive the most recent war. Their parents died during my childhood. I have
no kin on my father’s side, and my mother had one cousin, who lives on the
continent and conveniently forgot about us when we fell on hard times.”
Nesta had written letter after letter when they’d fallen into poverty,
begging her cousin Urstin to take them in. They’d gone unanswered, and
then the money for postage had run out. Nesta still wondered if their cousin
had ever learned what had become of the relatives she’d ignored and left to
die.
Nesta asked carefully, “What about your family?” She’d seen and heard
enough from Bellius to have a general idea, but she couldn’t help asking.
“Mother died giving birth to me, and my elder brother died in a
skirmish between war-bands ten years before I was born. My father died
during the war with Hybern.” The words were stiff, cold. “I do not bother
with the rest of my kin, though my father’s family makes it a point to try to
claim this store and his wealth as their own.”
“They’re not entitled to it, are they?”
“No. Rhysand changed the inheritance laws centuries ago to include
females, but my uncles don’t seem to care. They still show up every now and
then to bother me like Bellius did. They believe a woman should not run her
own business, that I should wed a male in this village and leave the store to
them.” She grimaced. “They’re vultures.”Emerie had finished her lunch and poured some tea for each of them.
“It’s a shame that you won’t be coming up here very often. I could use
another sensible person to talk to.”
Nesta blinked at the compliment, the bit of truth it revealed about
Emerie: she was unhappy in this place. All those questions about traveling
… “Would you ever move away?”
Emerie choked on a laugh. “And go where? At least here I know
people. I’ve never left this village. Never even been up to that mountaintop
over there.” She gestured to the window, and Nesta made it a point not to
look at her wings.
Nesta sipped from her tea. It was a strong brew, with a bit of a bite. She
must have made a face because Emerie explained quietly, “Tea is in short
supply here—a luxury that I indulge. But to spread it out, I add a little
willow bark to it. It also helps with some of my … pains.”
“What pains?”
“My wings sometimes hurt. The scars, I mean. Like an old wound.”
Nesta kept her pity tamped down. She finished her tea right as Emerie
did, and said, “Thank you for the food.” Rising, she picked up her plate.
“I’ll get it.” Emerie hustled around the table. “Don’t trouble yourself.”
She moved with an easy grace, like someone confident in her body.
Nesta drifted to the front of the shop, but then said, at last voicing her
reason for visiting, “The training I’m doing with Cassian in the House of
Wind is open to anyone—any female, I mean. Females who have
experienced … hardship.” Emerie’s wings, her horrible family, were not the
same as what Gwyn had endured, but everyone’s traumas wore different
masks. “We train each morning, from nine to eleven, though we sometimes
run until noon. You’re welcome to come.”
Emerie stiffened. “I have no way of getting there, but I appreciate the
offer.”
“Someone could come retrieve you, and bring you back.” Nesta didn’t
know who, but if she had to ask Rhys himself, she would.
“It’s a generous offer, but I have my shop to run.” Emerie’s face yielded
nothing, as battle-hardened as Azriel’s. “I’m not interested in a warrior’s
training. I doubt it would win me patrons in this town to have them know
I’m doing such a thing.”
“You don’t seem like a coward.”
The words rang between them.Emerie bit her lip. But Nesta shrugged. “Send word if you wish to join
us. The offer stands.”
Cassian hated to admit it, but for a spoiled, soulless asshole, Eris had his
uses. Mostly one: the bubble of heat that warmed them against the chill
winds wending through the pines of the Illyrian Steppes. Some fire magic to
warm their bones.
“The Dread Trove,” Eris mused, surveying the heavy gray sky that
threatened snow. “I’ve never heard of such items. Though it does not
surprise me.”
“Does your father know of them?” The Steppes weren’t neutral ground,
but they were empty enough that Eris had finally deigned to accept Cassian’s
request to meet here. After taking days to reply to his message.
“No, thank the Mother,” Eris said, crossing his arms. “He would have
told me if he did. But if the Trove has a sentience like you suggested, if it
wants to be found … I fear that it might also be reaching out to others as
well. Not just Briallyn and Koschei.”
Beron in possession of the Trove would be a disaster. He’d join the
ranks of the King of Hybern. Could become something terrible and deathless
like Lanthys. “So Briallyn failed to inform Beron about her quest for the
Trove when he visited her?”
“Apparently, she doesn’t trust him, either,” Eris said, face full of
contemplation. “I’ll need to think on that.”
“Don’t tell him about it,” Cassian warned.
Eris shook his head. “You misunderstand me. I’m not going to tell him
a damned thing. But the fact that Briallyn is actively hiding her larger plans
from him …” He nodded, more to himself. “Is this why Morrigan is back in
Vallahan? To learn if they know about the Trove?”
“Maybe,” Cassian lied. She was still trying to convince them to sign the
new treaty. But Eris didn’t need to know that.
“Here I was,” Eris said, “thinking Morrigan was going there so often to
hide from me.”
“Don’t flatter yourself. It’s only coincidence.” He wasn’t sure if the lie
held.
“Why shouldn’t I flatter myself with such thoughts? You flatter
yourself, thinking you’re more than a mongrel bastard.”Cassian’s Siphons glinted atop his hands, and Eris smirked at the
evidence that he’d landed the blow. But Cassian forced himself to say
calmly, “That’s all the information I have.”
“You’ve given me a great deal to consider.”
“Make sure you keep it quiet,” Cassian warned again.
Eris winked before winnowing away.
Alone in the howling wild, Cassian blew out a breath. Embraced the
chill winds, the pine-fresh scent, and willed it to wash away his irritation and
discomfort.
But it lingered. For some reason, it lingered.CHAPTER
