4
Mor had already commandeered a table at the riverfront café, an arm slung
across the back of a wrought-iron chair, the other elegantly draped over her
crossed knees. Cassian halted a few feet from the maze of tables along the
walkway, smiling to himself at the sight of her: head tipped toward the sun,
unbound hair gleaming and rippling around her like liquid gold, her full lips
curled upward, basking in the light.
She never stopped appreciating the sunshine. Even five hundred years
after leaving that veritable prison she’d called home and the monsters who
claimed her as kin, his friend—his sister, honestly—still savored every
moment in the sun. As if the first seventeen years of her life, spent in the
darkness of the Hewn City, still lurked around her like Az’s shadows.
Cassian cleared his throat as he approached the table, offering pleasant
smiles to the other patrons and people along the walkway who either gawked
or waved at him, and by the time he sat, Mor was already smirking, her
brown eyes lit with amusement.
“Don’t start,” he warned, settling his wings around the chair’s back and
motioning to the owner of the café, who knew him well enough to
understand that meant he wanted water—no tea or sweets, both of which
Mor had before her.
Mor grinned, so beautiful it took his breath away. “Can’t I enjoy the
sight of my friend being fawned over by the public?”
He rolled his eyes, and murmured his thanks to the owner as a pitcher
of water and a glass appeared before him.
Mor said when the owner had gone to tend to other tables, “I seem to
remember a time when you enjoyed that sort of thing, too.”
“I was a young, arrogant idiot.” He cringed to recall how he’d strutted
around after successful battles or missions, believing he deserved the praise
of strangers. For too damn long, he’d indulged in that bullshit. It had taken
walking these same streets after Rhys had been imprisoned by Amarantha—
after Rhys sacrificed so much to shield this city, and seeing thedisappointment and fear in so many faces—to make Cassian realize what a
fool he’d been.
Mor cleared her throat, as if sensing the direction of his thoughts. She
didn’t possess Rhys’s skill set, but having survived in the Court of
Nightmares, she’d learned to read the subtlest of expressions. A mere blink,
she’d once told him, might mean the difference between life and death in
that miserable court. “She’s settled, then?”
Cassian knew who she meant. “Taking a nap.”
Mor snorted.
“Don’t.” His attention drifting to the glittering Sidra mere feet away.
“Please don’t.”
Mor sipped her tea, the portrait of elegant innocence. “We’d be better
off throwing Nesta into the Court of Nightmares. She’d thrive there.”
Cassian clenched his jaw, both at the insult and the truth. “That’s
exactly the sort of existence we’re trying to steer her away from.”
Mor assessed him with a bob of her thick lashes. “It pains you seeing
her like this.”
“All of it pains me.” He and Mor had always had this kind of
relationship: truth at all costs, however harsh. Ever since that first and only
time they’d slept together, when he’d learned too late that she’d hidden from
him the terrible repercussions. When he’d seen her broken body and known
that even if she’d lied to him, he’d still played a part.
Cassian blew out a breath, shaking away the blood-soaked memory still
staining his mind five centuries later. “It pains me that Nesta has become …
this. It pains me that she and Feyre are always at each other’s throats. It
pains me that Feyre hurts over it, and I know Nesta does, too. It pains me
that …” He drummed his fingers on the table, then sipped from his water. “I
really don’t want to talk about it.”
“All right.” The breeze ruffled the gauzy fabric of Mor’s twilight-blue
dress.
He again let himself admire her perfect face. Beyond the disastrous
consequences for Mor after their night together, the fallout with Rhys
afterward had been awful, and Azriel had been so furious in his own quiet
way that Cassian had quelled any further desire for Mor. Had let lust turn
into affection, and all romantic feelings turn into familial bonds. But he
could still admire her sheer beauty—as he’d admire any work of art. Eventhough he knew well that what lay inside Mor was far more lovely and
perfect than her exterior.
He wondered if she knew that.
Drinking again, he said, “Tell me what happened in Vallahan.” The
ancient, mountainous Fae territory across the northern sea had been stirring
since before the war with Hybern, and had been both enemy and ally to
Prythian in different historical eras. What role Vallahan’s hot-tempered king
and proud people would play in this new world of theirs was yet to be
decided, though much of its fate seemed to depend upon Mor’s now-frequent
presence at their court as Rhys’s emissary.
Indeed, Mor’s eyes shuttered. “They don’t want to sign the new treaty.”
“Fuck.” Rhys, Feyre, and Amren had spent months working on that
treaty, with input from their allies in other courts and territories. Helion,
High Lord of the Day Court and Rhys’s closest ally, had been the most
involved. Helion Spell-Cleaver was unrivaled in sheer, swaggering
arrogance—he’d probably made up the moniker himself. But the male had
one thousand libraries at his disposal, and had put them all to good use for
the treaty.
“I’ve spent weeks in that blasted court,” Mor said, poking at the flaky
pastry beside her teacup, “freezing my ass off, trying to kiss their cold asses,
and their king and queen refused the treaty. I came home on the earlier side
today because I knew any more last-minute pushing from me would be
unwelcome. My time there was supposed to be a friendly visit, after all.”
“Why won’t they sign it?”
“Because those stupid human queens are stirring—their army still isn’t
disbanded. The Queen of Vallahan even asked me what the point of a peace
treaty would be when another war, this time against the humans, might
redraw the territory lines far below the wall. I don’t think Vallahan is
interested in peace. Or allying with us.”
“So Vallahan wants another war in order to add to their territory?”
They’d already seized more than their fair share after the War five hundred
years ago.
“They’re bored,” Mor said, frowning with distaste. “And the humans,
despite those queens, are far weaker than we are. Pushing into human lands
is low-hanging fruit. Montesere and Rask are likely thinking the same
thing.”Cassian groaned skyward. That had been the fear during the recent war:
that those three territories across the sea might ally with Hybern. Had they,
there would have been no chance at all of survival. Now, even with Hybern’s
king dead, its people remained angry. An army might be raised again in
Hybern. And if it united with Vallahan, if Montesere and Rask joined with
the goal of claiming more territory from the humans … “You already told
Rhys this.”
It wasn’t a question, but Mor nodded. “That’s why he’s asking you to
look into what’s going on with the human queens. I’m taking a few days off
before I head back to Vallahan—but Rhys needs to know where the human
queens stand in all of this.”
“So you’re supposed to convince Vallahan not to start another war, and
I’m supposed to convince the human queens not to do so, either?”
“You won’t get near the human queens,” Mor said frankly. “But from
what I observed in Vallahan, I know they’re up to something. Planning
something. We just can’t figure out what, or why the humans would be
stupid enough to start a war they cannot win.”
“They’d need something in their arsenal that could grant them the
advantage.”
“That’s what you have to find out.”
Cassian tapped his booted foot on the stones of the walkway. “No
pressure.”
Mor drained her tea. “Playing courtier isn’t all nice clothes and fancy
parties.”
He scowled. Long moments passed in amiable silence, though Cassian
half-heard the wind whispering over the Sidra, the merry chatter of the
people around them, the clink of silverware against plates. Content to let him
think, Mor returned to her sunning.
Cassian straightened. “There’s one person who knows those queens
inside and out. Who can offer some insight.”
Mor opened an eye, then slowly sat forward, hair falling around her like
a rippling golden river. “Oh?”
“Vassa.” Cassian hadn’t dealt much with the ousted human queen—the
only good one out of the surviving group, who had been betrayed by her
fellow queens when they’d sold her to a sorcerer-lord who’d cursed her to be
a firebird by day, woman by night. She’d been lucky: they’d given the otherrebellious queen in their midst to the Attor. Who had then impaled her on a
lamppost a few bridges away from where Cassian and Mor now sat.
Mor nodded. “She might be able to help.”
He leaned his arms on the table. “Lucien is living with Vassa. And
Jurian. He’s supposed to be our emissary to the human lands. Let him deal
with it.”
Mor took another bite from her pastry. “Lucien can’t be entirely trusted
anymore.”
Cassian started. “What?”
“Even with Elain here, he’s become close with Jurian and Vassa. He’s
voluntarily living with them these days, and not just as an emissary. As their
friend.”
Cassian went over all he’d heard and observed from his encounters with
Lucien since the war, trying to contemplate it like Rhys and Mor would.
“He’s spent months helping them sort out the politics of who rules Prythian’s
slice of the human lands,” Cassian said slowly. “So Lucien can’t be unbiased
in reporting to us on Vassa.”
Mor nodded gravely. “Lucien might mean well, but any reports would
be skewed—even if he isn’t aware of it—in their favor. We need someone
outside of their little bubble to collect information and report.” She finished
off her pastry. “Which would be you.”
Fine. That made sense. “Why haven’t we already contacted Vassa about
this?”
Mor waved a hand, though her shadowed eyes belied her casual
gesture. “Because we’re just now piecing it all together. But you should
definitely speak with her, when you can. As soon as you can, actually.”
Cassian nodded. He didn’t dislike Vassa, though meeting her would
also entail talking with Lucien and Jurian. The former he’d learned to live
with, but the latter … It didn’t matter that it turned out that Jurian had been
fighting on their side. That the human general who’d been Amarantha’s
tortured prisoner for five centuries had played Hybern after being rebirthed
by the Cauldron, and had helped Cassian and his family win the war. Cassian
still didn’t like the man.
He rose, leaning to ruffle Mor’s shining hair. “I miss you these days.”
She’d been away frequently lately, and each time she returned, a shadow he
couldn’t place dimmed her eyes. “You know we’d warn you if Keir evercame here.” Her asshole of a father still hadn’t called in his favor with Rhys:
to visit Velaris.
“Eris bought me time.” Her words were laced with acid.
Cassian had tried not to believe it, but he knew Eris had done it as a
gesture of good faith. He’d invited Rhysand into his mind to see exactly why
he’d convinced Keir to indefinitely delay his visit to Velaris. Only Eris had
that sort of sway with the power-hungry Keir, and whatever Eris had offered
Keir in exchange for not coming here was still a mystery. At least to Cassian.
Rhys probably knew. From Mor’s pale face, he wondered if she knew, too.
Eris must have sacrificed something big to spare Mor from her father’s visit,
which would have likely been timed for a moment that would maximize
tormenting her.
“It doesn’t matter to me.” Mor waved off the conversation with a flip of
her hand. He could tell something else was eating at her. But she’d let him in
when she was ready.
Cassian walked around the table and pressed a kiss to the top of her
head. “Get some rest.” He shot skyward before she could answer.
Nesta woke to pure darkness.
Darkness that she had not witnessed in years now. Since that
ramshackle cottage that had become a prison and a hell.
Jolting upright, hands clutching at her chest, she gasped for air. Had it
been some fever dream on a winter’s night? She was still in that cottage, still
starving and poor and desperate—
No. The air in the room was toasty, and she was the lone person in the
bed, not clinging to her sisters for warmth, always squabbling over who got
the coveted middle place in the bed on the coldest nights, or the edges on the
hottest summer ones.
And though she’d become as bony as she’d been during those long
winters … this body was new, too. Fae. Powerful. Or it had once been.
Scrubbing at her face, Nesta slid from the bed. The floors were
warmed. Not the icy wooden planks in the cottage.
Padding to the window, she drew back the drapes and peered out at the
darkened city below. Golden lights shone along the streets, dancing on the
twining band of the Sidra. Beyond that, only starlight silvered the lowlands
before the cold and empty sea.A scan of the sky revealed nothing regarding how far off dawn might
be, and a long moment of listening suggested the household remained
asleep. All three of them who occupied it.
How long had she slept? They’d arrived by eleven in the morning, and
she’d fallen asleep soon after that. She’d consumed absolutely nothing all
day. Her stomach grumbled.
But she ignored it, leaning her brow against the cool glass of the
window. She let the starlight gently brush her head, her face, her neck.
Imagined it running its shimmering fingers down her cheek, as her mother
had done for her and her alone.
My Nesta. Elain shall wed for love and beauty, but you, my cunning
little queen … You shall wed for conquest.
Her mother would thrash in her grave to know that, years later, her
Nesta had come dangerously close to marrying a weak-willed woodcutter’s
son who had sat idly by while his father beat his mother. Who had put his
hands on her when she called things off between them. Who had then
attempted to take what she hadn’t offered.
Nesta had tried to forget Tomas. She often found herself wishing the
Cauldron had ripped those memories away just as it had her humanity, but
his face sometimes sullied her dreams. Her waking thoughts. Sometimes, she
could still feel his rough hands pawing at her, bruising her. Sometimes, the
coppery tang of his blood still coated her tongue.
Pulling back from the window, Nesta studied those distant stars again.
Half-wondered if they might speak.
My Nesta, her mother had always called her, even on her deathbed, so
wasted and pale from typhus. My little queen.
Nesta had once delighted in the title. Had done her best to fulfill its
promise, indulging in a dazzling life that had melted away as soon as the
debtors swept in and all her so-called friends had revealed themselves to be
nothing more than envious cowards wearing smiling masks. Not one of them
had offered to help save the Archeron family from poverty.
They had thrown them all, mere children and a crumbling man, to the
wolves.
So Nesta had become a wolf. Armed herself with invisible teeth and
claws, and learned to strike faster, deeper, more lethally. Had relished it. But
when the time came to put away the wolf, she’d found it had devoured her,
too.The stars flickered above the city, as if blinking their agreement.
Nesta curled her hands into fists and climbed back into bed.
Cauldron damn him, maybe he shouldn’t have agreed to bring her here.
Cassian lay awake in his behemoth of a bed—large enough for three
Illyrian warriors to sleep side by side, wings and all. Little in the room itself
had changed in the past five hundred years. Mor occasionally groused about
wanting to redecorate the House of Wind, but he liked this room how it was.
He’d awoken at the sound of a door shutting and been instantly alert,
heart hammering as he pulled free the knife he kept on the nightstand. Two
more were hidden under his mattress, another set above the doorway, and
two swords lay beneath the bed and in a dresser drawer, respectively. That
was just his collection. The Mother knew what Az had stored in his own
room.
He supposed that between him, Az, Mor, and Rhys, in the five centuries
they’d used the House of Wind, they had filled it with enough weapons to
arm a small legion. They’d hidden and stashed and forgotten about so many
of them that there was always a good chance of sitting on a couch and being
poked in the ass by something. And a good chance that most of the weapons
were now little more than rust in their sheaths.
But the ones in this bedroom, those he kept oiled and clean. Ready.
The knife gleamed in the starlight, his Siphons fluttering with red light
as his power scanned the hall beyond the door.
But no threat emerged, no enemy breaching the new wards. Hybern’s
soldiers had broken through more than a year ago, nearly getting their hands
on Feyre and Nesta in the library. He hadn’t forgotten it—that terror on
Nesta’s face as she’d raced for him, arms outstretched.
But the sound in the hall … Azriel, he’d realized a heartbeat later.
That he’d heard the door at all told him Az wanted him aware of his
return. Hadn’t wanted to talk, but had wanted Cassian to know that he was
around.
Which had left Cassian here, staring at the ceiling, his Siphons
slumbering once more and knife again sheathed and set on the nightstand.
From the stars’ position, he knew it was past three—dawn was still far off.
He should get some sleep. Tomorrow would be hard enough.As if his silent plea had gone out into the world, a smooth male voice
purred into his mind. Why are you up so late?
Cassian scanned the sky beyond the wall of windows, as if he’d see
Rhys flying there. I have the same question for you.
Rhys chuckled. I told you: I had some apologizing to do with my mate.
A long, wicked pause. We’re taking a break.
Cassian laughed. Let the poor female sleep.
She was the one who initiated this round. Pure male satisfaction edged
every word. You still didn’t answer my question.
Why are you snooping on me at this hour?
I wanted to make sure all was well. It’s not my fault you were already
up.
Cassian let out a soft groan. It’s fine. Nesta went to sleep right after we
got here and stayed in bed. I’m assuming she’s still asleep.
You got there before eleven.
I know.
It’s three fifteen in the morning.
I know.
The silence was pointed enough that Cassian added, Don’t butt in.
I wouldn’t dream of it.
Cassian didn’t particularly want to have this conversation, not at three
in the morning and certainly not twice in one day. I’ll check in tomorrow
night with an update on the first lesson.
Rhys’s pause was again too pointed to ignore. But his brother said, Mor
will bring you up to Windhaven. Good night, Cass.
The dark presence in his mind faded, leaving him hollow and chilled.
Tomorrow would be a battlefield unlike any other he’d walked onto.
Cassian wondered how much of him would be left intact by the end of
it.CHAPTER
