22
“Do you think Nesta can find the Trove?” Azriel asked Cassian as they
relaxed in the sitting room that separated their bedchambers, flames
crackling in the hearth before them. The night had turned chill enough that
they needed the fire, and Cassian, who’d always loved fall despite the pricks
in the Autumn Court, savored the warmth.
“I hope so,” Cassian hedged. He couldn’t stomach the thought of Nesta
putting herself in danger, but he understood her motivations entirely. If he’d
had to pick between sending one of his brothers into danger or doing it
himself, he would always—always—choose himself. Though he’d winced at
every harsh word that had come out of Nesta’s mouth to Elain, he couldn’t
fault the fear and love behind her decision. Could only admire that she had
stepped up—if not for the good of the world, then to keep her sister safe.
Azriel said, “Nesta really should do a scrying.”
Cassian gazed across the space between their two armchairs. They’d sat
in them, before this fire, so many times that it was an unspoken rule that
Azriel’s was the one on the left, closer to the window, and Cassian’s the one
to the right, closer to the door. A third sat to Azriel’s left, usually for Rhys,
and a fourth to Cassian’s right, always for Mor. A lace-lined golden throw
pillow adorned the fourth chair, a permanent mark of her ownership. Amren,
for whatever reason, rarely stayed here long enough to see this room, so no
chair had ever been held for her.
“Nesta isn’t up for a scrying,” Cassian said. “We don’t even know what
power she has left.”
But Elain had confirmed it for everyone: both sisters still possessed
their Cauldron-gifted powers. Whether they were as powerful as before, he
had no idea.
“You do know, though,” Azriel countered. “You’ve seen it—even
beyond when it glows in her eyes.”
Cassian hadn’t told anyone about the step he’d found with the clear
finger holes burned into it. He wondered if Azriel had somehow learned ofthem, the news brought to him on his shadows’ whispers. “She’s volatile
right now. The last time she did a scrying, it ended badly. The Cauldron
looked at her. And then took Elain.” He’d seen every horrific memory flash
before Nesta’s eyes today. And though he understood that Elain had spoken
true, claiming the trauma of that memory, Cassian knew firsthand the
lingering horror and pain of a loved one stolen and hurt.
Azriel stiffened. “I know. I helped rescue Elain, after all.”
Az hadn’t so much as hesitated before going into the heart of Hybern’s
war-camp.
Cassian leaned his head against the back of the chair, rustling his wings
through the gaps crafted to accommodate them. “Nesta will scry on her own,
eventually, if she’s capable.”
“If Briallyn and Koschei find just one of the Dread Trove items—”
“Let Nesta try it her way first.” Cassian held Az’s stare. “If we go in
and order her to do it, it’ll backfire. Let her exhaust her other options before
she realizes only one is viable.”
Azriel studied his face, then nodded solemnly.
Cassian blew out a breath, watching the flames leap and flutter. “We’re
going to be uncles,” he said after a moment, unable to keep the wonder from
his voice.
Azriel’s face filled with pride and joy. “A boy.”
It wasn’t a guarantee that a High Lord’s firstborn would be his heir. The
magic sometimes took a while to decide, and often jumped around the birth
order completely. Sometimes it found a cousin instead. Sometimes it
abandoned the bloodline entirely. Or chose the heir in that moment of birth,
in the echoes of a newborn’s first cries. It wouldn’t matter to Cassian,
though, if Rhys’s son inherited his world-shaking power, or barely a drop.
It wouldn’t matter to Rhys, either. To any of them. That boy was
already loved. “I’m happy for Rhys,” Cassian said quietly.
“So am I.”
Cassian looked over at Az. “You think you’ll ever be ready for one?”
Ever be ready to confess to Mor what’s in your heart?
“I don’t know,” Azriel said.
“Do you want a child?”
“It doesn’t matter what I want.” Distant words—ones that prevented
Cassian from prying further. He was still happy to be Mor’s buffer with
Azriel, but there’d been a change lately. In both of them. Mor no longer satbeside Cassian, draped herself over him, and Azriel … those longing glances
toward her had become few and far between. As if he’d given up. After five
hundred years, he’d somehow given up. Cassian couldn’t think why.
Az asked, “Do you want a child?”
Cassian couldn’t stop the thought that flashed: of him and Nesta against
the wall a level below, her hand rubbing him exactly the way he liked it, her
moans like sweet music.
He’d left her unsatisfied—she’d run off before he could make it even
between the two of them. He’d gone up to Windhaven after the meeting
earlier, and hadn’t seen her at dinner. Wasn’t even sure what the hell he’d
say to her, how they’d have a conversation.
It was like the unfinished bargain inked across their backs, that
imbalance of pleasure. And a matter of what he unashamedly could call male
pride. She had the upper hand now. Had looked so damned smug when she’d
cut him: quick off the mark.
His knee bounced, and he glowered at the flame.
“Cassian?”
He realized Azriel had asked him a question. Right—about children.
“Of course I want children.” He’d contemplated it often, what manner
of family he’d build for himself, how he’d make sure his children never
spent a moment thinking they were unloved and unwanted; never, ever spent
a moment hungry or scared or cold or in pain.
But no female had ever come along who’d tempted him enough to fight
for that future.
He supposed, deep down, that was what he was holding out for: the
mating bond. What he’d seen between Feyre and Rhys.
Cassian blew out another breath and got to his feet. Azriel lifted a silent
brow.
Cassian aimed for the door. He wouldn’t be able to rest, to focus, until
he evened the playing field. As he entered the hall, he muttered without
looking back, “Turn a blind eye, chaperone.”
Curled up in bed, a book propped on the thick down comforter, Nesta was
just getting to the sizzling first kiss in her latest novel when a knock thudded
on her door.
She slammed the book shut and sat up against the pillows. “Yes?”The handle turned, and there he was.
Cassian still wore his leathers, the overlapping scales of them full of
shadows that made him look like some great, writhing beast as he shut the
door.
He leaned against the carved oak, his wings rising high above his head
like twin mountain peaks.
“What?” She slid the book onto the nightstand, sitting up further. His
eyes dipped to her sleeveless silk nightgown, then quickly returned to her
face. “What?” she demanded again, angling her head. Her unbound hair slid
over a shoulder, and she saw him mark that, too.
His voice was rough as he said, “I’ve never seen you with your hair
down.”
She always wore it braided across her head or pinned up. She frowned
at the locks that flowed to her waist, the gold amongst the brown glimmering
in the dim light. “It’s a nuisance when it’s down.”
“It’s beautiful.”
Nesta couldn’t stop her swallow as she lifted her gaze. His eyes were
blazing, yet he remained leaning against the door, hands trapped behind his
body. As if he were physically restraining himself.
His scent drifted to her, darker, muskier than usual. She’d bet all the
money she didn’t have that it was the scent of his arousal.
It set her pulse hammering, careening so far off the path of sanity that
she scrambled after its vanishing leash. To let him affect her so easily, so
greatly—unacceptable.
She didn’t dare look below his waist, not as she shaped her lips into a
cool smile. “Here for more?”
“I’m here to settle the debt between us.”
His words were guttural. Her toes curled beneath the blanket.
But her voice remained surprisingly calm. “What debt?”
“The one I owe you for last night.”
He spoke as if there was no room in him for teasing, for humor. His
eyes drifted lower than her face, noting the hammering of her pulse. “We
have unfinished business.”
She grappled for anything to guard against him. “Male pride is a thing
of wonder.” When he didn’t respond, she threw another wall his way: “Why
are you even here? You made it clear enough that last night was a mistake.”He was having none of it. “I never said that.” His attention remained
fixed on her hammering pulse.
“You didn’t need to. I saw it in your eyes.”
His gaze snapped to hers. “The only mistake was that I came before I
could taste you.”
Nesta knew he didn’t mean her mouth. Or her skin.
Cassian went on, “The only mistake was that you ran off before I could
get on my knees.”
Breathing became difficult. “Won’t your friends tell you this is a
mistake?” She gestured to the air between them.
“My friends have nothing to do with this. With what I want from you.”
He said it with such intent that her breasts pebbled. His eyes dipped
again, and when he saw her nipples hard against the silk of her nightgown …
His entire being seemed to focus on it. On her. All five hundred years of
being a trained warrior, an apex predator. All of it, narrowing on her.
His appraisal enveloped her like a rush of wind, of fire. “What about
training?” she breathed.
“This stays out of training.” His eyes had turned wholly dark.
Her skin tightened, becoming almost painful as she went molten and
throbbing between her legs.
“Nesta.”
A note of pleading had entered his voice. He was trembling—the door
behind him rattling with the force of his deteriorating self-control.
She looked then. Below his waist. At what strained against his pants.
Her head emptied out, and there was only him and her and the space
between them.
Cassian let out a growl, the sound a plea as well.
She made herself say, “This stays out of training—and everything else.
This is just sex.”
Something shifted in his expression, but he said, “Just sex.”
This was sure to be a mistake, sure to be something she paid for,
suffered for. But she couldn’t bring herself to deny him. Deny herself. Just
for tonight, she’d allow it.
So Nesta met his eyes again, took in every trembling, restrained inch,
and said, “Yes.”
Cassian lunged for her, a beast freed of its cage, and she barely had
time to twist toward the edge of the bed before his lips were on hers,devouring and claiming.
Deep purring sounds vibrated from his chest through her fingers as she
clawed off his jacket, his shirt, ripping through the fabric. He tore his lips
from hers only long enough to pull his shirt away, the fabric snaring on his
wings before falling to the floor. Then he was on her again, climbing onto
the bed, and she spread her legs for him, letting his body fall into the cradle
between her thighs.
She couldn’t stop her moan as he drove his hips into hers, the leather of
his pants sliding against her. He plunged his tongue into her mouth, the kiss
like a brand, one hand sliding up her bare thigh, tugging her nightgown with
it. When he reached her hip and still had found no underwear, he hissed.
Looked to where he pressed his hardness against her and realized that only
the leather of his pants separated him from her wetness.
She was shaking, and not from fear, as he took a trembling hand and
slid her nightgown higher. Pulled it up to her navel and then stared at her,
bare and gleaming, pressed against the bulge in his pants. His chest heaved,
and she waited for that brutal, demanding touch, but he only leaned down
and pressed a kiss to her throat.
Tender, coaxing. Cassian pressed another to her shoulder, and she
shivered. Shivered more as he dragged his tongue over the spot. He kissed
the hollow of her throat. Licked it.
He slipped the straps of her nightgown down her arms. Kissed her
collarbones. With each kiss, he pulled down the neck of her nightgown
further. Until his breath warmed her bare breasts.
Cassian let out a sound from the back of his throat, from his gut. Like
some sort of starved, tormented creature. He stared at her breasts, and she
couldn’t breathe under that burning gaze. Couldn’t breathe as his head
dipped and he wrapped his lips around her nipple.
Nesta arced off the bed, a breathless sound rupturing from her.
Cassian only repeated the movement on her other breast.
And then raked his teeth across the sensitive peak before clamping
down lightly.
She moaned then, tipping her head back, thrusting her chest up toward
him in silent plea.
Cassian let out that dark laugh and returned to her other breast, teeth
grazing, teasing, biting.She strained her hands toward him, toward where he’d gone still
between her legs. She needed him—now. In her hand or her body, she didn’t
care.
But Cassian only pulled away. Pulled up, and knelt before her.
Surveyed her spread beneath him, her nightgown a bunch of silk around her
middle, everything else bared to him. His own feast to devour.
“I owe you a debt,” he said in that guttural voice that made her writhe.
He watched her hips undulate, and braced his large, powerful hands on either
thigh. He waited for her to signal that she understood what he intended.
What she’d dreamed of for so long, in the darkest hours of the night.
In a choked whisper, she said, “Yes.”
Cassian gave her a feral, purely male smile. And then his hands
tightened on her bare thighs, spreading them wider. His head lowered, and
all she could see was his dark hair, gilded by the lamps, and his exquisite
wings, rising above them both.
He didn’t waste time with gentle touches and tastes.
Parting her with one hand, he dragged his tongue clear up her center.
The world fractured, re-formed, and fractured again. He cursed against
her wetness, and he reached down with his other hand to adjust himself in
his pants.
He licked her again, lingering at the spot atop the apex of her legs.
Sucking it into his mouth, teeth nipping, before he withdrew.
She arched, unable to stop the moan breaking from her throat.
Cassian’s tongue ran downward in an unhurried sweep, and he pressed
a hand to her abdomen, stilling her, as he slid his tongue straight into her
core. It curled into her, driving deeper than she’d expected, and she couldn’t
think, couldn’t do anything but luxuriate in it, in him—
“You taste,” he growled against her, making his way up again toward
the bundle of nerves in short, teasing licks, “even more delicious than I
dreamed.”
Nesta whimpered, and he flicked his tongue there. Her whimper turned
to a cry, and he laughed against her and flicked his tongue again.
Release became a shimmering veil, just beyond her grasp but drifting
closer.
“So wet,” he breathed, and licked at her entrance, as if determined to
consume every drop of her. “Are you always this wet for me, Nesta?”She wouldn’t allow him the satisfaction of the truth. But she couldn’t
think of a lie, not with his tongue pumping in and out of her, coaxing her
toward but still denying her the pressure and relentless pounding she so
badly needed.
Cassian snickered, as if he knew the answer anyway. He licked her, his
silken hair brushing over her belly, and looked up to meet her gaze.
As their eyes locked, he slid a finger into her.
She cried out, and he trailed a hand from her thigh to hold her open
again as he licked at that spot while his finger pumped in and out of her in a
teasingly slow rhythm.
More—she wanted more. She undulated her hips against him, hard
enough to drive his finger deeper.
“Greedy,” he murmured onto her, and withdrew his finger nearly to its
tip. Only to add a second finger as he plunged back in.
Nesta let go entirely then. Let go of sanity and any pride as he filled her
with those two fingers. He sucked and nibbled, and release gathered around
her like an iridescent mist.
Cassian growled again, given over to whatever need drove him, and the
reverberations of the sound echoed into places of her that had never been
touched. In and out his fingers slid, stretching and filling, all while he tasted
and savored.
Nesta rode his hand, his face, grinding into him with abandon.
“Holy gods.” Cassian’s teeth grazed against her. “Nesta.”
The sound of her name on his lips against her most sensitive place sent
her mind scattering into eternity.
She bowed off the bed with the force of her climax, and he became
ravenous, fingers pumping and pumping, tongue and lips moving against
her, like he’d devour her pleasure whole. He didn’t stop until she’d collapsed
against the mattress, until she was limp and reeling and trying to piece her
mind back together.
The slide of his fingers out of her left her empty and aching, the
removal of his tongue and mouth from between her legs like a cold kiss.
Cassian was panting, still hard as he rose up and stared at her.
She couldn’t move—couldn’t remember how to move. No one had ever
done that to her. Made her feel like that.
It had knocked the breath from her, the thoroughness of her pleasure.
Like the world could be remade in the force of what had erupted from her.She just watched the carved, heaving muscle of his chest, his wings, his
handsome face.
Nesta reached for the cock she was dying to feel, to taste, but he backed
off the bed.
Cassian grabbed his shirt and aimed for the door. “We’re even now.”CHAPTER
