40
The rain kept falling for two days, the temperatures plummeting with it.
Leaves lay scattered around Velaris, and the Sidra was now a silver snake,
sometimes hidden by the drifting mists. The females showed up every damn
day without fail.
But only Nesta stood at his side as he knocked on the door of the small
blacksmith’s shop on the western outskirts of Velaris.
The gray-stoned, thatched-roof shop hadn’t changed in the five
centuries he’d been patronizing it—he bought all his non-Illyrian weapons
there. He’d have taken her to an Illyrian blacksmith, but they were mostly
backward, superstitious males who wanted females nowhere near their
shops. The ruddy-skinned High Fae male who opened the door for them was
skilled and kind, if gruff.
“General,” the male said, wiping his sooty hands on his stained leather
apron. He opened the door wider, delicious heat blasting out to meet them in
the chilled rain. The blacksmith’s dark eyes swept over Nesta, noting her
soaked hair and leathers, the calm intensity of her features despite the awful
weather.
She’d had that same look on her face, in every line of her body, while
training this morning. And when Cassian had issued the invitation to join
him here during the lunch hour. He’d invited all of the females, but Emerie
had to return to Windhaven, and the priestesses had been unwilling to leave
the mountain. So only Nesta had come with him to the small village, with
the city looming on its eastern side and broad, flat plains stretching away
toward the sea to the west.
“How can I assist you?”
Cassian nudged Nesta forward with a hand to the small of her back, and
grinned at the male. “I want Lady Nesta to learn how a blade is made.
Before she picks up a real one.”
The blacksmith surveyed her again. “I don’t need an apprentice, I’m
afraid.”“Just a quick demonstration,” Cassian said, keeping his smile in place
as he glanced to Nesta, who was staring over the blacksmith’s broad
shoulder into the workshop behind him. The blacksmith frowned deeply, so
Cassian added, “I want her to learn how much work and skill goes into the
process. To show her that a blade is not merely a tool for killing, but a piece
of art as well.” Flattery always helped smooth the way. Rhys had taught him
that.
Nesta’s gaze shifted to the blacksmith’s face, and for a moment, they
stared at each other. Then Nesta said, “Whatever you can show me, in
whatever free time you have, would be much appreciated.”
Cassian tried not to show his surprise at her polite words. The hint of
deference.
It seemed to do the trick, as the blacksmith waved them in.
Nesta listened while the dark-haired male explained the various stages
of forging a blade, from the quality of the ore to the proving. Cassian kept
near her, asking questions of his own, since she said little herself. One of the
few times she’d spoken had been to request to move away from the roaring
fires of the forge room to the quieter, cooler dark of the workshop proper.
But as the blacksmith finished going over the design process for more ornate
blades, Nesta asked, “Can I try it?” At the blacksmith’s hesitation, Nesta
stepped forward, eyes on the doorway beyond them, filled with the
bellowing of the forge. “Hammering the blades, I mean. If you have any to
spare.” She glanced at Cassian. “You’ll be compensated, of course.”
Cassian nodded. “We’ll pay for the blades if they’re damaged.”
The blacksmith surveyed Nesta again, as if testing the ore in her, then
nodded. “I’ve got a few you could try your hand at.”
He led them back into the heat and flame and light, and Cassian could
have sworn Nesta was inhaling and exhaling in a perfect, controlled rhythm.
She kept her gaze only on the blacksmith, however, as he carried over a half-
made sword and laid it upon the anvil. Pretty, but ordinary. A common,
everyday sword, the blacksmith said. After a swift, flawless demonstration,
he handed her the hammer. “Brace your feet like so,” the blacksmith said,
and Nesta followed his instructions until she lifted the hammer above one
shoulder and swung down.
A clanking thunk sounded, and the sword clattered. A clumsy near-
miss. Nesta gritted her teeth. “That’s not as easy as it looks.”The blacksmith pointed to the sword. “Try again. It takes a while to
grow accustomed to it.” Cassian had never heard the male speak so …
gently. Normally their conversations were swift and to the point, free of
formalities or personal tidbits.
Nesta struck the sword again. A better hit this time, but still a sorry
blow. Coals popped in the forge behind them, and Nesta flinched. Before
Cassian could ask why, she’d gritted her teeth again and struck the sword a
third time. Fourth. Fifth.
By the time the blacksmith brought out a dagger, she’d gotten the hang
of it. Was even smiling slightly. “Daggers require a different technique,” the
blacksmith explained, again demonstrating. So much work and skill and
dedication, all for an ordinary blade. Cassian shook his head. When had he
last stopped to appreciate the craftsmanship and labor that went into his
weapons?
Sweat beaded Nesta’s brow as she hammered at the dagger, blows and
body surer now. Pride wended through his chest. Here she was, that female
who’d been forged during the war with Hybern. But different—more
focused. Stronger.
Cassian was only half-listening when the blacksmith brought out a great
sword.
But he snapped to attention as Nesta fell upon it in one smooth
movement, the hammer striking clear and true.
Strike after strike, and Cassian could have sworn the world paused as
she unleashed herself with the same intensity she brought to training.
The blacksmith smiled at her. The first time Cassian had ever seen the
male do so.
Nesta’s arm arched above her, the hammer gripped in her clenched
fingers. It was a dance, each of her movements timed to the ringing echo of
the hammer on the blade. She pounded the sword to a music no one but she
could hear.
Cassian let her keep at it, the rain and wind rustling the thatched roof a
distant counter-beat above them, and began to wonder what would emerge
from the heat and shadows.
Learning swordplay was no easy task—it required repetition and muscle
memory and patience—but Nesta, Emerie, and Gwyn were game.No, Cassian realized as he watched them put away their swords in the
icy rain that continued the next day. They were more than game: they trained
with a newfound, steady focus. No one more so than Nesta, who now
shelved her sword and took up a length of linen. She began wrapping her
hands, rolling her neck as she did so.
They hadn’t spoken after the blacksmith lesson yesterday afternoon,
though she’d thanked him quietly upon returning to the House of Wind.
She’d had that intensity upon her face again, eyes distant—as if focusing on
some invisible target. So he hadn’t sought her out last night, even though
every part of him had screamed to do so. But he’d give her time. Let her
initiate when she was ready. If she wanted him again.
Cassian shut down the thought. Allowed the icy rain to cool his desire,
his dread.
In silence, Nesta approached the punching block, a fallen tree trunk that
had been wrapped in thick blankets. She approached it as if she were facing
an opponent.
She glanced over her shoulder to Cassian as she stopped before it, a
question in her eyes.
He nodded. “You want to use the last fifteen minutes to spar, go ahead.”
That was all she needed, and he was too pleased to say more as Nesta
took up her fighting stance and began punching.
The first impact of her knuckles against the padded wood hurt. But she hit
where she was supposed to, and her thumb remained where she’d made it
learn to stay, and when she pulled her arm back, the pain became a song. She
threw another punch, eliciting a satisfying thunk from the wood.
Good—it felt good. To get it out, to channel it this way.
Her breathing was sharp as a blade, but she threw a left hook, then two
jabs of her right fist.
She didn’t feel the rain, didn’t feel the cold.
Every punch carried her fear, her rage, her hate out of her body and into
that wood.
For three days, she’d had fire in her blood. For three days, she had
dreamed of swords and stairs and combat. She couldn’t stop it. Had fallen
into bed so tired that she had no chance to even read before she wasunconscious. There certainly had been no sex with Cassian. Not even a
smoldering glance over the dining table.
Azriel’s presence helped. He now trained the newest recruits, quiet and
gentle yet unfaltering, and if she didn’t know better, she’d swear at least two
of the priestesses—Roslin and Ilana—sighed every time he walked past.
Some small, awful part of her was glad they didn’t sigh over Cassian.
She punched that thought out of herself, too. That pathetic, selfish thought.
Just as all of her was pathetic, and selfish, and hateful.
One-two, two-one-one; she punched and punched, throwing all of
herself into the wood.
“By the Cauldron,” a familiar male voice said beside Cassian, and he turned
to find Lucien in the archway to the training area. The rest of the priestesses
and Azriel had left ten minutes earlier. Nesta hadn’t even noticed. “Feyre
said she was training, but I hadn’t realized she was … well, training.”
Cassian nodded his hello, keeping his eyes on Nesta where she punched
the padded wood over and over, just as she had for the last twenty-five
minutes straight. She’d gone into a place Cassian knew too well—where
thought and body became one, where the world faded to nothing. Working
something out from deep inside of herself. “Did you think she was filing her
nails?”
Lucien’s mechanical eye clicked. His face tightened as Nesta threw a
spectacular left hook into the wood beam. It shuddered with the impact. “I
wonder if there are some things that should not be awoken,” he murmured.
Cassian cut him a glare. “Mind your own business, fireling.”
Lucien just watched Nesta attack, his golden skin a little pale.
“Why are you here?” Cassian asked, unable to help the sharpness.
“Where’s Elain?”
“I am not always in this city to see my mate.” The last two words
dripped with discomfort. “And I came up here because Feyre said I should. I
need to kill a few hours before I’m to meet with her and Rhys. She thought I
might enjoy seeing Nesta at work.”
“She’s not a carnival attraction,” Cassian said through his teeth.
“It’s not for entertainment.” Lucien’s red hair gleamed in the dimness of
the rainy day. “I think Feyre wanted a progress assessment from someone
who hasn’t seen her in a while.”“And?” Cassian bit out.
Lucien threw him a withering look. “I’m not your enemy, you know.
You can drop the aggressive brute act.”
Cassian gave him a grin that didn’t meet his eyes. “Who says it’s an
act?”
Lucien let out a long sigh. “Very well, then.”
Nesta threw another series of punches, and Cassian knew she was
leading up to the knockout blow. Two left jabs and a right hook that
slammed into the wood so hard it splintered.
And then she stopped, her fist pressed against the wood.
Her panting breath swirled from her mouth in the frigid rain.
Slowly, she straightened, fist lowering, steam rippling through her teeth
as she turned. He caught a flicker of silver fire in her eyes, then it vanished.
Lucien had gone still.
Nesta stalked toward the two males. She met Lucien’s stare as she
approached the archway, and said nothing before continuing into the House.
As if words were beyond her.
Only when her footsteps vanished did Lucien say, “Mother spare you
all.”
Cassian was already walking to the wooden beam.
A small disc of impact lay in its center, through the padding, all the way
to the wood itself. It glowed. Cassian raised shaking fingers to it.
To the burn mark, still sparking like an ember.
The entire wood block was smoldering from within. He touched his
palm to it. The wood was cold as ice.
The block dissolved into a pile of cinders.
Cassian stared in stunned silence, the smoking wood hissing in the rain.
Lucien came up beside him. He only said again, voice solemn, “Mother
spare you all.”CHAPTER
