59
Nesta opened her eyes.
She knew she was warm and content, though it took her a moment to
remember the reason. To realize she was still in Cassian’s arms. She reveled
in it. Savored each breath that brushed against her temple, felt the press of
his fingers along her lower back. A calm settled over her, strikingly similar
to what she felt when she did her daily Mind-Stilling.
Cassian awoke soon after, giving her a sleepy, sated smile. It softened
into something tender, and for long minutes, they lay there, staring at each
other, Cassian idly brushing his hand down her back. Caressing soon turned
to more fervent touching, and as the dawn broke, they tangled again, their
lovemaking thorough and unhurried.
When she again lay sweating and panting beside him, running a finger
down the groove of his muscled stomach, Nesta murmured, “Good
morning.”
Cassian’s fingers idly smoothed her hair. “Good morning to you, too.”
He glanced toward the mantel—the small wooden clock in its center, then
lurched upright. “Shit.”
Nesta frowned. “You have somewhere to be?” He was already hopping
into his pants, scanning the floor for the rest of his clothes. Nesta silently
pointed to the other side of the bed, where his shirt lay atop her dress.
“Snowball fight. I’ll be late.”
Nesta had to unload each word of his statement. But she could only ask,
“What?”
“Annual tradition, with Rhys and Az. We go up to the mountain cabin
—remind me to take you there one day—and … Well, it’s a long story, but
we’ve done it pretty much every year for centuries, and I haven’t won in
years. If I don’t win this year, I will never hear the end of it.” All of this was
said while shoving himself into his shirt, leather jacket, and boots.
Nesta just laughed. “You three—the most feared warriors in all the land
—have an annual snowball fight?”Cassian reached the door, throwing her a wicked grin. “Did I mention
we take a steam in the birchin attached to the cabin afterward?”
From that wicked grin, she knew he meant completely naked. Nesta sat
up, hair sliding over her breasts. His eyes dipped lower, a muscle pounding
in his neck. For a heartbeat she hoped he’d lunge for her again. Indeed, his
nostrils flared, scenting the need that boiled in her just at the sight of his
gaze roving freely over her body, the way every part of him tensed.
But Cassian swallowed, grin and wickedness fading as he cleared his
throat. “After the fight, I need to do a comprehensive inspection of the
legions in Illyria for a few days. I’ll be back after that.”
Without so much as a farewell kiss, he vanished.
Three days passed with no word from Cassian. He’d been replaced in
training by a stone-faced Azriel, who was more aloof than usual and
wouldn’t even give her a smile. But he didn’t object when she brought her
Symphonia to the ring each morning for some extra motivation while
exercising. The priestesses had marveled at the gift, a few of them dancing
to the music, but Nesta had only been able to think about how much time
and effort Cassian had put into it. How he had known what such a present
would mean to her.
Her entire body ached with need, setting her teeth on edge. Three days
without him might as well have been three months. She’d become desperate
enough for him that her hand now slid between her legs in the bath, in bed,
even during lunch in her room. But release left her empty, as if her body
knew it needed him in her, filling her. She’d asked Azriel every day when
he’d be back, and Azriel had only said, Soon, before conducting their
lessons.
Maybe she’d gone mad. Maybe that was what that iron wall around her
mind had been—the thing that kept her sanity in check. Surely it wasn’t
normal to think of a person this much, need them this much.
It was that worry that hounded her as they wrapped up lessons, panting
and sweating despite the frigid morning thanks to the Valkyrie sprints they’d
been practicing: ten seconds at a full sprint, thirty seconds trotting, another
ten seconds sprinting … For fifteen minutes straight. Once they could get
through it, they’d add in their shields. Then swords. All of it designed to
build their stamina and focus on controlling their breathing between burstsof attack and retreat. All of it utter insanity that couldn’t quite dull the edge
of Nesta’s fretting as she asked Emerie and Gwyn, “Do you want to stay
over at the House with me tonight?” She motioned to the archway. “Have a
read-in or something?”
Gwyn blinked, considering. She had not set foot outside of the library
save to come to these lessons or to use the practice ring to hack at that
ribbon. But she said, “I’ll ask Clotho.”
Emerie smirked at Nesta, as if aware of why she needed company.
“Sure.”
That evening, Nesta and Emerie read in companionable silence in the
private library, waiting for Gwyn. Emerie had sprawled across the armchair,
legs dangling over an arm, her back against the other. Without looking up
from the book in her lap, she said, “Cassian must be really good at sex, if
you’re so tied up in knots while he’s gone.”
Nesta cleared her throat, dispelling the memories of his mouth, his
strong body, the way his silken black hair fell on either side of his face as he
lay over her, swaying as he pounded into her. “He’s …” She made a low
noise in her throat.
“I figured,” Emerie said, chuckling. “He’s got the Walk.”
“The Walk?”
Emerie smirked. “You know, when a male knows how to use his cock
well and struts around with that swagger that basically declares it to
everyone.”
Nesta rolled her eyes. “I’d hope he knows how to use it well after being
alive for five hundred years.” She snorted. “Though I’ve met plenty who
proved that wrong.”
Emerie arched a brow for her to continue, but a knock sounded on the
library door. Gwyn’s head popped in, and she scanned the room before
entering. She bore a small bag, presumably of what she’d need for the night.
Nesta had already asked the House to prepare a bedroom for all three of
them to share, and she’d entered the private library to find it transformed: by
the window against the far wall, a worktable and chairs had been swapped
for three cots, each laden with blankets and pillows.
Gwyn smiled, though her pulse pounded wildly against the column of
her throat. “Sorry I’m late. Merrill made me go over a paragraph with her ten
times.” Gwyn sighed. “Please tell me all the chocolate is for us.”The House had stocked the table between the armchairs with piles of
chocolate: truffles and confections and bars of it. Along with cookies and
small finger cakes. And a platter of cheeses and fruit. And carafes of water
and various juices.
Gwyn surveyed the table. “Did you go to all this trouble?”
“Oh, no,” Emerie said, eyes glowing. “Nesta’s been holding out on us.”
Nesta scoffed, but Emerie said, “The House will get you anything you
want. Just say it aloud.” At Gwyn’s raised brows, Emerie said, “I’d like a
slice of pistachio cake, please.”
A plateful of one appeared before her. As well as a bowl of whipped
cream topped with raspberries.
Gwyn blinked. “You live in a magic house.”
“It likes to read,” Nesta admitted, patting a stack of the romances.
“We’ve bonded over that.”
Gwyn whispered to the room, “What’s your favorite book?”
One thumped on the table beside Emerie’s cake, and Gwyn squawked
in surprise. But then rubbed her hands together. “Oh, this is delightful.”
“That smile means trouble,” Emerie said.
Gwyn’s grin just widened.
Two hours later, Nesta found herself fully clothed in a bathtub in the middle
of the private library, the entire thing filled with bubbles. No water, just
bubbles. In matching tubs on either side of her, Emerie and Gwyn were
giggling. “This is ridiculous,” Nesta said, even as her mouth curved upward.
Each one of their requests had gotten more and more absurd, and Nesta
might have felt like they were exploiting the House had it not been so …
exuberant in answering their commands. Adding creative flourishes.
Like the fact that each bubble held a tiny bird fluttering about inside.
Silent fireworks still exploded in the far corner of the room, and a
miniature pegasus—Nesta’s request, made only when her friends goaded her
into submitting one—fed on a small patch of grass by the shelf, content to
ignore them. A cake taller than Cassian stood in the center of the room, lit
with a thousand candles. Six frogs danced circles around a red-and-white-
spotted toadstool, the waltzes provided by Nesta’s Symphonia.
Emerie wore a diamond crown and six strings of pearls. Gwyn sported
a broad-brimmed hat fit for any fine lady, perched at a rakish angle on herhead. A lace parasol leaned against her other shoulder, and she twirled it idly
as she surveyed the windows, the world beyond, and said in a hushed voice,
“I sometimes wonder if I shall ever have the courage to go out there again. I
fear every day that I won’t.”
Nesta’s smile slid away. She considered her words before she said, “I
feel the same.”
Because this existence, living in the House, training, working in the
library … It wasn’t real life. Not entirely. When she was allowed to return to
the city proper, then she’d face life again. See if she was worthy of it. The
thought made her stomach twist.
Dispelling the gloom, Gwyn leaped out of her tub, bubbles spraying,
and padded for her bag. “Now, don’t you two dare laugh at me, but I brought
something for us to do. I didn’t realize we’d have a magic house to keep us
occupied.” She pulled out a bundle of various colored threads. “My sister
and I used to braid bracelets and put these little charms on them full of
wishes for each other.” She lifted a sack, dumping a few silver coins into her
palm. They were no larger than her pinkie nail, and as thin as a wafer. Her
voice grew soft. “We believed that the wish would come true once the
bracelet fell off.”
Emerie asked gently, “What was her name?”
“Catrin.” Gwyn’s voice held so much pain and longing. “We were
fraternal twins. Her hair was dark as onyx, her skin pale as the moon. And
she was as moody as the sea.” She laughed quietly. “Despite her faults—and
mine—we loved each other dearly. We were all each other had while
growing up. She was the only one I could truly rely on. I miss her every
day.”
Nesta couldn’t stop herself from thinking of Feyre.
Gwyn said, “I wish I could just have one more moment with her. Just
one, to tell her that I love her and say good-bye.” She wiped at her eyes,
lifting her head. Looked right at Nesta. “It’s what really mattered in the end,
you know. Not our petty fights or differences. I forgot all of that the moment
she …” Gwyn shook her head. “It’s all that matters.”
Nesta nodded slowly. Perhaps it wasn’t just her and Feyre, then.
Perhaps all sisters had difficulties, fights, chasms between them. She wasn’t
perfect, but … neither was Feyre. They had both made mistakes. And both
had long, long lives ahead of them. What had occurred in the past did not
have to dictate the future.So Nesta nodded again, letting Gwyn see her understanding. “It’s all
that matters,” Nesta agreed.
Gwyn smiled, and then straightened, clearing her throat. “I managed to
track the thread and charms down before Solstice, thinking I’d make them
for you as little presents, but they took longer to arrive than I thought they
would. So I figured we could make the bracelets tonight.” She carefully set
the materials upon the nearest table.
Nesta and Emerie rose to survey the variety of threads: all colors and
hues, all carefully bundled. “Show me how to do it,” Emerie said softly.
Nesta wondered if Gwyn’s words had resonated with her, too—what pain
and hope Emerie might be holding within her.
But Gwyn grinned, beginning her demonstration by selecting three
colors that she thought matched Emerie’s spirit, she claimed. Green, purple,
and gold. Nesta refrained from snickering and selected colors for Gwyn:
blue, white, and teal. Emerie, in turn, selected Nesta’s colors: navy blue,
crimson, and silver. Nesta and Emerie dutifully tried to copy Gwyn’s “easy”
steps: doubling up the thread, knotting it, cutting the looped bits, then
pinning the top of the bracelet beneath a heavy book as they separated each
length by color. And then began a process of looping and pulling, back and
forth. Emerie’s knots were flawless. Nesta’s …
“Your bracelet is going to be an eyesore, Gwyn.” Nesta scowled at the
wobbly, bunched-up mess that was her first ten rows.
“Keep going,” Gwyn said, leagues ahead on her own bracelet and
beginning to add pretty patterns within the rows. “The knots will get better-
looking with practice. Just tell me when you’ve gotten to the halfway point
and then we’ll add the charm.”
They worked in music-filled companionship, idle chatter bouncing
between them, Emerie and Gwyn occasionally laughing at Nesta’s awful
workmanship. “Now,” Gwyn said when they were halfway through, “we
make wishes for each other.” She reached for one of the tiny coins. “I’ll just
hold this in my hand, think of something for Emerie, and—”
“Wait,” Nesta said, catching Gwyn’s hand before it could touch the
charm. “Let me.”
Her friends regarded her curiously, and Nesta swallowed. “Let me make
a wish for all of us,” she explained, gathering the three charms. A small gift
—for the friends who had become like sisters.
A chosen family. Like the one Feyre had found for herself.Nesta squeezed the charms in her palm, closing her eyes, and said: “I
wish for us to have the courage to go out into the world when we are ready,
but to always be able to find our way back to each other. No matter what.”
Gwyn and Emerie cheered at that. And when Nesta opened her eyes,
palm unfurling, she could have sworn the coins glowed faintly.CHAPTER
