26
Without doing extra training between the stacks, Nesta found herself less
exhausted when she left the library. Cassian had retrieved her from
Windhaven after two and a half hours, and she’d already been so bored
sitting in Rhys’s mother’s house that she’d nearly smiled to see him. But
Cassian’s face had been tight, his eyes cold and distant, and he’d barely
spoken to her when Rhys had appeared. Rhys had barely spoken to her,
either, but that was to be expected. It was better if they didn’t speak at all.
Yet Cassian hadn’t said more than “I’ll see you later” before leaving
again with Rhys after the High Lord had brought them back to the House of
Wind, his face still tight and angry.
With the extra energy buzzing through her that night, wondering
incessantly why Cassian had been so upset, Nesta didn’t feel like eating in
her room and falling asleep. So she found herself in the doorway of the
dining room.
Cassian was lounging in his chair, a glass of wine in his hand, staring at
nothing. A brooding warrior-prince, contemplating the death of his enemies.
She took a step into the room, and the wineglass vanished.
She snorted. “I’m not so wine-addled that I’d steal it from your hand.”
“The House is under specific orders—no wine when you’re in the
room.” He flexed his fingers as he sat up. “It took it from me.”
“Ah.” She claimed the seat across from him as a place setting and a
plate of food appeared, along with water for both of them.
Cassian returned to staring at his half-eaten food. She hadn’t seen his
face this grave since the war.
“Did something happen with the queens or the Trove?”
He blinked. “What?” Then gave a one-shouldered shrug. “No, just …
Eris was his usual charming self today.” He pushed around the roast chicken
with his fork.
Nesta picked up her own fork, hungry enough that she let the subject
drop as she devoured her food. When she’d taken the edge off her hunger,she said, “I asked Emerie to join training.”
“I’m assuming she said no.” His words were flat, his face distant.
“Indeed. But if she changes her mind, I thought maybe someone could
winnow her here.”
“Sure.” She could tell he wasn’t just being short with her—he was so
preoccupied with whatever was eating at him that he could barely talk.
It bothered her more than it should have. Bothered her enough that she
asked, “What happened?” She made herself eat more, acting as casual as
possible, trying to coax him into opening up. To talk about what had brought
that bruised look to his eyes.
His gaze lowering to his plate, Cassian told her about the meeting with
Eris.
“So Eris is set on helping us find the Trove—and making sure his father
doesn’t get his hands on it, or hear about it,” Nesta said when he’d finished.
“Isn’t that a good thing? Why are you riled?” Why do you look so battered?
“It’s the ugliness of his fucking soul that riles me. I don’t care if he calls
me a mongrel bastard.” Eris had called him such things today, she realized.
Rage rippled through her. “It’s just that, ally or not, I hate him. He’s so slick
and unruffled and … I can’t stand him.” He set down his fork and stared
toward the window behind her. “Eris and his twisted word games and
politics are an enemy I don’t know how to handle. Every time I meet with
him, I feel like he’s got the upper hand. Like I can only catch up to him, and
he sees through my every fumbling attempt at being clever. Maybe that
makes me a stupid brute after all.”
True sorrow filled his face—and enough self-loathing that Nesta rose
from her seat. He went still as she rounded the table, only lifting his head
when she leaned against the edge of the table beside his plate. “Rhys should
kill him and be done with it.”
“If anyone is going to kill Eris, it will be Mor or me.” His hazel eyes
were nearly pleading. Not with her, she knew, but with fate. “But killing him
would prove him and his ilk right about me. And regardless of how I feel
about Eris, he would be a better High Lord than Beron. No matter what I
want, there’s still the well-being of the Autumn Court to consider.”
Cassian was good. In his soul, in his warrior’s heart, Cassian was good
in a way Nesta knew most people were not. In a way she knew she was not
and would never be.He was not a warrior who killed on a whim, but a male who carefully
considered every life he had to take. Who’d defend what he loved until
death.
And Eris … He’d hurt Cassian. With what he’d done to Morrigan, yes,
but also with the words so similar to ones that Nesta herself had wielded.
The wound lay in Cassian’s eyes, as raw as any injury.
Shame rushed through her. Shame, and anger, and a wild sort of
desperation. She couldn’t abide the pain in his eyes, teetering on the brink of
despair. Couldn’t stand the absence of the grinning and winking and
swaggering she knew so well.
She’d do anything to get rid of that look in his eyes. Even for a few
moments.
So Nesta braced her hands on the arms of his chair as she brushed a kiss
to his neck.
Cassian’s breath caught. But she pressed another kiss to the soft, warm
skin of his neck, just beneath his ear. Another, lower now, closer to the collar
of his dark shirt.
He trembled, and she kissed the hard knot in the center of his throat.
Licked it.
Cassian shifted in his chair, groaning softly. His hand rose to clasp her
hip, as if he’d push her away, but she removed him. “Let me,” she said
against his neck. “Please.”
He swallowed, and that hard knot moved against her mouth. But he
didn’t stop her, and so Nesta kissed him again, moving to the other side of
his neck. Reaching that spot just beneath his ear as she laid a hand on his
chest and felt his heartbeat hammering into her palm.
She didn’t kiss his mouth. She didn’t want that distraction. Not as she
slid between him and the table and dropped to her knees.
His eyes went wide. “Nesta.”
She reached for the top of his pants, the bulge already pressing through.
“Please,” she said again, and met his stare. From where she knelt between
Cassian’s legs, he towered over her, but the edge in his eyes softened almost
imperceptibly before he nodded. He reached to help her with the buttons and
stays, but she lightly laid a hand atop his.
Her fingers were steady, sure, as she unfastened his pants. Her head
wholly clear.The muscles in his thighs shifted against her as she pulled him free and
nearly gasped.
His cock was enormous. Beautiful, and hard, and absolutely enormous.
Her mouth dried out, every plan she’d had requiring sudden reassessment.
There was no way he’d fit entirely in her mouth. Perhaps no way he’d even
fit in her body.
But she sure as hell wanted to try.
Her fingers shook a little as she stroked them down the thick, long
shaft. The skin was so soft—softer than silk or velvet. And he was hard as
steel beneath. He shuddered, and she lifted her eyes to find his gaze fixed on
her hand.
“How do you like it?” she asked, her voice breathy as hot need washed
through her. She wrapped her hand around his cock—her fingers barely able
to reach around him completely. “Gentle?” She made a feather-soft pass over
him, squeezing lightly.
Cassian shook his head, as if beyond words.
She stroked him again, slightly harder. “Like this?”
His chest heaved, his teeth shining as he gritted them. But he shook his
head.
Nesta smiled, and when she pumped him a third time, she squeezed
hard, letting her nails graze the sensitive underside of his shaft.
His hips arced off the chair, and she pinned a hand to them. “I see,” she
murmured, and did it again. Harder still, twisting her fist as she reached the
round head.
He tried to arch into her hand, but she pinned him again with that other
hand.
“And this?” she purred, head lowering. “Do you like this?”
Nesta licked across his broad head, tongue sliding into the small slit
across its tip. She licked up the small bead of moisture already gathered
there.
Everything in her body turned molten; a surge of wetness slicked
between her thighs as the taste of him filled her mouth, salt and something
more, something vital.
“Oh, gods,” Cassian panted. And the words, the groan they were borne
on, were so delicious that Nesta sucked his tip into her mouth and grazed her
tongue along its underside.
He leaned his head back against the chair, hissing.She licked up his shaft in one long motion. Rubbed her thighs together
as she tasted him, felt all that hot, proud steel against her mouth. She licked
down the other side, coating him, making it easier for herself as she put her
mouth around him again and slid him between her lips.
He filled her almost immediately, and she glanced down to discover
there was enough of him still exposed that she needed to add her hand.
“Nesta,” he pleaded, and she made another pass at him, pulling him out
nearly all the way before swallowing him again, letting her throat relax,
desperate for as much of him in her mouth as could fit.
Cassian’s hand speared into her hair, gripping, and she realized he was
holding himself back. Didn’t want to ram himself into her, hurt her, displease
her.
And that wouldn’t do. Not at all.
She wanted him undone, wanted him grabbing her head and fucking her
mouth as hard as he wished.
So when Nesta took him into her mouth again, hand working in unison,
she dragged her teeth. Lightly enough to hurt—just a bit.
Cassian bucked, and she let him, swallowing him down greedily,
squeezing him with her hand enough to tell him she wanted this, wanted him
to let himself go. She withdrew her lips to the tip of him, rolling her tongue
around him, and gazed at him from under her lashes.
His eyes were on her, wide and glazed with lust.
And when Cassian met her stare, beheld her looking up at him—
He unleashed himself.
He couldn’t take it. It was torture, a special kind of torture, to have Nesta
kneeling before him with his cock in her mouth and hand and not be able to
roar with pleasure. But then she stared at him through her lashes, and the
sight of her with his cock between her lips snapped something.
He didn’t care that they were in the dining room, that a wall of
windows and doors lined half the space and anyone flying by might see.
Cassian slid his other hand into her hair, fingers twining into her
braided coronet, and he thrust up into her mouth.
She took him deep, and moaned so loudly it reverberated along his cock
and straight into his balls. They tightened further, and release gathered in hisspine, a scorching knot that had him arcing into her mouth again. He was
utterly at her mercy.
Nesta moaned once more, a soft encouragement, and Cassian needed
nothing else. Gripping her hair, her scalp, holding her in place, he thrust his
hips. She met him with each stroke, mouth and hand working in unison, until
the slick heat of her, the teeth that sometimes grazed him, teased him, the
tightness of her fist—they were unbearable, were all he cared about.
Cassian fucked her mouth, and her moaning had him deciding he’d fuck
the rest of her, too. Strip those pants off her and drive into her so hard she’d
be screaming his name to the ceiling.
He made to pull out, but Nesta refused to move. He growled, his fingers
clamping on her head to still her. “I want to be inside you,” he managed to
say, his voice like gravel.
But Nesta looked up at him again from under her lashes, and he
watched his length disappear into her mouth. His tip bumped against the
back of her throat.
Oh, gods. He clenched his teeth. “I want to finish inside you.”
Nesta only huffed a laugh, and sucked him down so deep that he
couldn’t stop it. Couldn’t stop the release as she slid her other hand into his
pants and cupped his balls, squeezing softly.
Cassian came with a roar that shook the glasses on the table, arcing up
into her as he spilled himself down her throat.
She weathered it, weathered him, and when he’d stopped shuddering,
she smoothly, gracefully, slid her mouth off him.
Nesta held his stare while she swallowed. Swallowed down every
ounce of what he’d spilled into her mouth. And then her lips curved upward,
a queen triumphant.
Cassian panted, not caring that his cock was still out, slick and leaking,
only that she was mere inches away and he was going to return this
particular favor she’d given him.
Nesta rose to her feet, eyes flicking to his cock. The heat in her gaze
threatened to burn him, and the scent of her arousal wrapped itself around
him and dug its claws in deep.
“Take off your pants,” he growled.
Nesta’s smile only grew, pure feline amusement.
He’d fuck her on this table. Right now. He didn’t care about anything
else, about the common space they were in or Eris or Briallyn or Koschei orthe Dread Trove. He needed to be inside her, to feel that hot tightness around
him and claim her as she had claimed him.
Nesta’s fingers slid to the buttons and laces of her pants, and he shook
as he watched them free the top button—
Steps scuffed down the hall. A warning. From someone who knew how
to remain silent.
Cassian stiffened, then shoved his aching cock into his pants. Nesta
heard the sound and moved a few feet away, refastening that top button.
Cassian had just finished setting himself to rights when Azriel strode in.
“Good evening,” his brother said with a grating level of calm, striding
toward the table.
“Az.” Cassian wasn’t able to keep the bite out of his tone. He met his
brother’s too-aware stare and silently conveyed every bit of annoyance he
felt at his timing. Azriel only shrugged, surveying the food the House had
brought him. As if he knew exactly what he’d interrupted and took his
chaperone duties very seriously.
Nesta was watching them, but as soon as Cassian turned to her, she
launched into movement, pushing off the table and aiming for the door.
“Good night.” She didn’t wait for him to respond before she was gone.
Cassian leveled a glare at Az. “Thanks for that.”
“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” Az said, even as he smiled
down at his food.
“Asshole.”
Az chuckled. “Don’t show your hand all at once, Cass.”
“What’s that supposed to mean?”
Az nodded toward the doorway. “Save something for later.”
“Busybody.”
Az took a bite. “You let her suck your cock in the middle of the dining
room. At a table I’m currently using to eat my dinner. I’d say that entitles me
to an opinion.”
Cassian laughed, his earlier gloom chased away. By her. All by her.
“Fair enough.”CHAPTER
