60
Cassian had been gone for five days. Five days, to inspect every single one
of the Illyrian legions, and remember how to behave like a normal, sane
male rather than a lovesick puppy. But somehow, by the time he returned, a
shift had occurred.
Not just the world-altering shift that had happened on Winter Solstice
between him and Nesta. But a shift between Nesta and Emerie and Gwyn.
He emerged into the frigid morning to find the three of them already in
the practice ring. They stood around the beam, the ribbon drifting gracefully
on the icy wind. Gwyn held a blade in her hand, and Emerie and Nesta stood
a few feet away. All three wore braided, colorful bracelets with silver charms
dangling from them.
Cassian lingered at the doorway as Nesta murmured to Gwyn, “You’ve
got this.” Azriel came up beside him, silent as the shadows that wreathed his
wings.
Gwyn stared the ribbon down like an enemy on a battlefield. It rippled
in the wind, dancing away, its motions unpredictable as any foe.
“Do it for the miniature pegasus,” Emerie said. Cassian had no idea
what it meant, but Gwyn’s lips twitched upward.
Nesta laughed.
The sound might as well have been a lightning strike to his head for
how much it rocked him, that laugh. Free and light and so unlike anything
he’d ever heard from her that even Azriel blinked. A true laugh. “The
miniature pegasus,” Nesta said, “was an illusion. And is now back in his
make-believe meadow.”
“He loved Gwyn most,” Emerie teased. “Despite your efforts to woo
him.”
They fell silent again as Gwyn shifted her feet, angling the blade. The
wind waggled the ribbon again, as if taunting her.
Cassian glanced over at Az, but his attention was fixed on the young
priestess, admiration and quiet encouragement shining from his face.Gwyn whispered, “I am the rock against which the surf crashes.” Nesta
straightened at the words, as if they were a prayer and a summons. Gwyn
lifted the blade. “Nothing can break me.”
Cassian’s throat tightened, and even from across the ring, he could see
Nesta’s eyes gleaming with pride and pain.
Emerie said, “Nothing can break us.”
The world seemed to pause at the words. As if it had been following
one path and now branched off in another direction. In a hundred years, a
thousand, this moment would still be etched in his mind. That he would tell
his children, his grandchildren, Right then and there. That was when it all
changed.
Azriel went wholly still, as if he, too, had felt the shift. As if he, too,
were aware that far larger forces peered into that training ring as Gwyn
moved.
Smooth as the Sidra, swift as the wind off the Illyrian Mountains, her
entire body working in singing harmony, Gwyn lunged toward the ribbon,
twirled, and as she spun, her arm opened up, executing a perfect backhanded
slice that cut the winter morning itself.
Half the ribbon fluttered to the red stone.
A flawless, precise slice. Not one frayed strand rippled in the wind as
the severed ribbon hanging from the beam flapped.
Nesta bent down, picked up the fallen half of the ribbon, and solemnly
tied it around Gwyn’s brow. A makeshift version of what the priestesses
wore atop their heads with their stones. But Cassian had never seen Gwyn
display her Invoking Stone.
Gwyn lifted trembling fingers to her brow, touching the ribbon with
which Nesta had crowned her.
Nesta’s voice was thick as she declared, “Valkyrie.”
It became the ritual: to cut that ribbon, to be crowned with its severed half
and anointed Valkyrie.
Gwyn was the first. Emerie the second. By the end of training that
morning, Nesta became the third.
It made facing Cassian only slightly easier. Even if the need within her
had only grown worse, clawing at the underside of her skin, begging to get
out. To get to him.Every time she met his stare, or got within a few feet of him, it roared at
her to strip off her clothes and offer herself to him. She focused on the white
ribbon around her brow, focused on what the three of them had
accomplished.
The lesson finished, and she might have dragged Cassian down to her
bedroom had he not simply taken to the skies and left. He didn’t come back
until the following morning.
He was avoiding her.
But the next morning, she understood why—or at least he had a reason
for his vanishing act.
The training ring had been transformed again.
An obstacle course lay all around it, coiled like a snake throughout.
Nesta was one of the last to arrive, and joined the crowd of females who
lingered by the door, murmuring about it as Cassian and Azriel turned to
them all. Cassian said, “Valkyries were fearless and brilliant warriors on
their own. But their true strength came from being a highly trained unit.” He
motioned to the obstacle course. “Alone, none of you will be able to get
through that course. Together, you can find a way.”
Emerie snorted.
Cassian leveled a grin at her. “Looks simple, doesn’t it?”
Emerie had the good sense to look nervous.
Azriel clapped his hands, and all the females straightened. “You’ll work
in groups of three.”
Gwyn asked Az, her teal eyes bright, “What do we get if we finish the
course?”
Az’s shadows danced around him. “Since there’s no chance in hell any
of you will finish the course, we didn’t bother to get a prize.”
Boos sounded. Gwyn lifted her chin in challenge. “We look forward to
proving you wrong.”
Proving Azriel and Cassian wrong would take a while, it seemed.
Gwyn, Emerie, and Nesta made it the farthest in three hours: a grand,
whopping halfway.
Roslin, Deirdre, and Ananke made it to the obstacle behind them before
time was up, and Ananke’s golden hair was matted with blood from the blow
she’d taken to the head from a spinning, many-armed wooden thing.“Sadistic monsters,” Gwyn hissed as the three friends limped toward
the water station, defeat heavy on their shoulders.
“We try again tomorrow,” Emerie swore, sporting a black eye thanks to
the swinging log that had knocked her on her ass before Nesta could grab
her. “We keep trying until we wipe that smug look off their stupid perfect
faces.”
Indeed, Azriel and Cassian had just leaned against the wall, arms
crossed, and smiled at them the entire time.
Gwyn threw Azriel a withering stare as she strode past him. “See you
tomorrow, Shadowsinger,” she tossed over a shoulder.
Az stared after her, brows high with amusement. When he turned back,
Nesta grinned. “You have no idea what you just started,” she said. Az angled
his head, hazel eyes narrowing as Gwyn reached the archway.
“Remember how Gwyn was with the ribbon?” Nesta winked and
clapped the shadowsinger on the shoulder. “You’re the new ribbon, Az.”
The obstacle course remained impossible.
The bastards changed it every night. Each new morning was a different,
harder challenge. But one that had an overall pattern: it usually began with
some array of footwork, whether doing a swift run of knee-to-chest steps
through a ladder on the ground or balancing on a suspended beam. Then
came mental testing—puzzles that required them to think together, and then
rely on each other to get through. And when they were thoroughly
exhausted, the feats of strength came in.
The three of them made it to the third stage only once in the next two
weeks.
Roslin, Ananke, and Deirdre were close on their heels, propelling
Gwyn to push her group harder. She wanted to be the first. Wanted Nesta
and Emerie and her to be the ones who wiped the smirks from Azriel’s and
Cassian’s faces. Especially Azriel’s.
Never mind that, after the first day, they only had an hour to get through
the course. The other two hours were spent as a group, working on military
training: marching in formation (harder and stupider than it looked), fighting
side by side (more dangerous than it seemed), and learning how to move,
think, breathe as a unit.But they kept at it. Marched in Valkyrie phalanxes. Fought as one, with
Cassian and Azriel playing their opponents. Learned to hold their shields in
place against the onslaught of the Illyrians’ Siphons, their towering male
forms. Every bit of Valkyrie endurance training paid off: every infernal squat
or lunge now allowed them to brace their shields with little effort. To hold
steady against an enemy attack.
They exercised as one, in precise lines as they did their abdominal curls
to the same beat. Did push-ups together. If one collapsed, they all had to start
over again.
But they kept going. Through sweat and breath and blood, they forged
themselves together.
And sometimes, when the evening services were over, the three of them
would gather in the library and read about military strategy. About Valkyrie
lore. About the techniques of the ancients.
More of the priestesses cut the ribbon—Roslin. Deirdre. Ananke. Ilana.
Lorelei.
Everything Azriel and Cassian threw at them, they took and threw right
back.
And every night, Nesta ran the stairs of the House. Farther and farther
and farther. She hadn’t been able to reach the bottom again since that fight
with Amren, but she kept trying.
No longer did memories and words send her rushing down it. Now she
was driven by pure, unrelenting purpose.
Nesta, Gwyn, and Emerie defeated the obstacle course two months to
the day after it had been brought in. Of course, it was on a day when all the
priestesses had been summoned away by Clotho for some special ceremony,
so there was no one to witness it other than Cassian and Azriel. Only Gwyn
had been exempted from the ceremony, apparently.
And when Gwyn reached the finish line, bloody and panting and
grinning so wildly her teal eyes glowed like a sunlit sea, she only extended
her battered hand to Azriel. “Well?”
“You already have your prize,” Azriel said simply. “You just passed the
Blood Rite Qualifier. Congratulations.”
Gwyn gaped. Nesta and Emerie halted. But Gwyn said to him, “That
was why you invited them?”
Nesta had no idea what the priestess was talking about, but followed
her gaze upward, to the lip of the pit, where a stone-faced Lord Devlon andanother male peered in, scowling.
No doubt this was the reason the other priestesses had been occupied
today.
Cassian murmured to Nesta, “I had a feeling today might be the day.”
Devlon seemed ready to erupt, his face purple with rage, but he looked
to Cassian and nodded tersely.
“You told the priestesses not to come?” Nesta asked Cassian and Azriel.
“We informed Clotho that we might have some observers today,” Azriel
answered, eyes full of ice and death as he stared down Devlon. The male
looked away from the shadowsinger before grunting to his crony and flying
eastward toward Illyria. Azriel went on, watching them vanish, “Clotho
explained it to the others—and they chose to find other ways to fulfill their
day.”
Nesta asked Gwyn, “But it seemed like you didn’t know what we were
doing.”
“Cassian and Azriel warned me that we’d be watched by males today,
but didn’t specify why. I had no idea it was the Blood Rite Qualifier.” Her
eyes shone bright above the dirt smudged on her face.
Emerie had blanched, though. She asked Cassian, “We’re not entering
the Blood Rite, are we?”
“Only if you want to,” Cassian assured her. She alone of all the females
here would understand the true horrors of the Blood Rite, Nesta knew. “But
we wanted Devlon—and whoever he tells—to understand that you’re as
talented as any Illyrian unit. This was the only way they’d get it. Being a
Valkyrie means nothing to them, and you certainly don’t need their approval,
but …” He glanced to Emerie again. “I wanted them to know. What you’ve
accomplished. That even though Valkyries don’t have something akin to the
Blood Rite, you’re as trained as any warrior in Illyria.”
“The courses?” Gwyn asked.
“Different routes,” Azriel said, “from various Qualifiers over the
centuries.”
Cassian grinned. “Short of partaking in the Blood Rite, you’re now as
close to being Illyrian warriors as you can be.”
Silence fell. Then Nesta said, wiping the blood from the corner of her
bruised mouth, “I’d rather be a Valkyrie.” The females murmured their
agreement.
Cassian laughed. “Gods help us.”CHAPTER
