24
Five days later, Cassian sat before the desk of the library’s high priestess and
watched her enchanted pen move. He’d met Clotho a few times over the
centuries—found she had a dry, wicked sense of humor and a soothing
presence. He’d made a point not to stare at her hands, or at the face he’d
only seen once, when Mor had brought her in so long ago. It had been so
battered and bloody it hadn’t looked like a face at all.
He had no idea how it had healed beneath the hood. If Madja had been
able to save it in a way she hadn’t been able to save Clotho’s hands. He
supposed it didn’t matter what she looked like, not when she had
accomplished and built so much with Rhys and Mor within this library. A
sanctuary for females who’d endured such unspeakable horrors that he was
always happy to carry out justice on their behalf.
His mother had needed a place like this. But Rhys had established it
long after she’d left this world. He wondered if Azriel’s mother had ever
considered coming here, or if he’d ever pushed her to.
“Well, Clotho,” he said, leaning back in the chair, surrounded by the
sounds of rustling parchment and the robes of the priestesses like fluttering
wings, “you asked for an audience?”
Her pen made a flourish as it finished what she’d been writing.
I have asked Nesta twice now not to practice in the library, and she has
disregarded my request. For five days, she has blatantly ignored my
commands to stop.
Cassian’s brows rose. “She’s practicing down here?”
Again, the pen scraped over the paper. He glanced to the open pit to his
left, as if he’d spot Nesta down there. A week had passed since that madness
in her bedroom, and they had not spoken of it, done nothing further. He
wasn’t entirely sure it would be wise to continue.
In addition to the grueling set of exercises to hone her body, Cassian
had walked her through the minutiae of hand-to-hand combat, individual
steps and movements that could be assembled in endless combinations.Learning each of those steps required not just strength but focus—to
remember which movement correlated with the numbered step, to let her
body start to remember all on its own: a jab, a hook, a high kick … He’d lost
count of how many times he’d caught her muttering at her body to remember
so she didn’t need to think so hard.
But he knew she liked the punches. The kicks. A light shone in her face
as her body flowed through the motions, a slingshot of strength all
narrowing to a point of impact. He’d always felt that way when he did the
movements correctly, like his body and mind and soul had lined up and
begun singing.
Clotho wrote, Nesta has practiced constantly of late.
“Has she done any damage?”
No. But I asked her to stop, and she has not.
He suppressed his smile. Perhaps the morning lessons weren’t
demanding enough. “Is her work suffering for it?”
No. That’s beside the point.
His mouth twisted to the side.
Clotho wrote, I need you to put a stop to this.
“Does it bother the others?”
It distracts them, to see someone kicking and punching at shadows.
Cassian had to duck his head so she wouldn’t read the amusement in his
eyes. “I’ll talk to her. Is she down there now?” He nodded to the sloping
ramp. “With your permission, of course.”
This was their safe harbor. It didn’t matter if he was a member of
Rhys’s court, or that he’d come here before. Every time, he asked
permission. He’d only ever failed to do so once: when Hybern’s Ravens had
attacked.
Yes. I give you permission to enter. Nesta is on Level Five. Perhaps you
shall manage to get through to her.
Taking that as his cue, Cassian rose. “You do know this is Nesta
Archeron we’re talking about? She does nothing unless she wishes to. And
she’s the least likely to listen to me.”
Clotho huffed a laugh. She has a will of iron.
“Of steel.” He smiled. “Good seeing you, Clotho.”
You as well, Lord Cassian.
“Just Cassian,” he said, as he had said so many times now.
You are a lord in good deeds. It is not a title born, but earned.He bowed his head as he said thickly, “Thank you.”
It took him until he reached the section where Clotho had said Nesta
would be to shake off the high priestess’s words. What they meant to him.
The scuffing steps greeted him first, then the steady, rhythmic breathing
he’d come to know so intimately. Cassian made his breathing match it,
turned his own steps silent, and peered into the next row of stacks.
Anyone walking along the ramp would only have to look to the right to
see Nesta standing there, in a near-perfect fighting stance, throwing punches
toward the shelf. She’d picked five books as targets and worked through
each punch toward them as if they were the parts on a body he’d shown her
where to strike.
Then she halted, blew out a breath and brushed back a strand of errant
hair, and straightened the books before returning to the metal cart behind her.
“You’re still dropping your elbow,” he said, and she whirled, falling
back against the cart with enough surprise that he swallowed his laugh. He’d
never seen Nesta Archeron so … ruffled.
She lifted her chin as she stalked toward him. He watched every
movement of her legs. She’d stopped throwing her weight onto her right leg
so much, and muscles shifted in her thighs, sleek and strong. Three weeks
might not be much time for a human body to pack on muscle, but she was
High Fae now. “I’m not dropping my elbow,” she challenged, emerging from
the row of stacks and into the flat area before the slope of the ramp.
“I just saw you do it twice with that right hook.”
She leaned against the end of a long shelf. “I assume Clotho sent you to
reprimand me.”
He shrugged. “I didn’t know you were so invested in the training that
you kept at it down here.”
Her eyes practically glowed in the dimness. “I’m tired of being weak.
Of depending on others to defend me.”
Fair enough. “Before I dispense with the lecture about ignoring
Clotho’s requests, let me just say that—”
“Show me.” Nesta stepped away from the shelf and squared off against
him. “Show me where I’m dropping my elbow.”
He blinked at the rippling intensity in her face. Then he swallowed.
Swallowed, because there she was: a glimpse of that person he’d known
before the war with Hybern had ended. A glimmer of her, like a mirage—
like if he looked at it too long, she’d slip away and vanish.So Cassian said, “Get into your stance.”
Nesta obeyed.
Hoping Clotho wouldn’t come shove him over the railing for
disobeying her orders, he said, “All right. Throw the right hook.”
Nesta did so. And dropped her damn elbow.
“Get back into position.” She did, and he asked, “May I?”
Nesta nodded, and kept perfectly still as he made minute adjustments to
the angle of her arm. “Punch again. Slowly.”
She heeded him, and his hand wrapped around her elbow as it began to
dip. “See? Keep this up.” He maneuvered her arm back into starting
position. “Don’t forget to flow the weight through your hips.” He took her
arm, keeping a good foot of distance between their bodies, and moved it
through the punch. “Like this.”
“All right.” Nesta reset herself, and he took a step away. Without his
order, she did the punch again. Perfectly.
Cassian whistled.
“Do that with more force and you’ll shatter a male’s jaw,” he said with
a crooked grin. “Give me a combination one-two, then four-five-three, then
one-one-two.”
Nesta’s brows bunched as she reset herself. Her feet shifted into
position, grounding her weight into the stone floor.
And then she moved, and it was like watching a river, like watching the
wind cut through a mountain. Not perfect, but close.
“If you did that against an opponent,” Cassian said, “they’d be on the
ground, gasping for air.”
“And then I’d make the kill.”
“Yes, a sword through the heart would finish the job. But if you struck
their chest hard enough with that final punch, you might make one of their
lungs collapse. On a battlefield, you’d opt for either the killing blow with a
sword or just leave them there, unable to move, for someone else to finish
off while you face the next opponent.”
She nodded, as if this all seemed like perfectly normal conversation.
Like he was giving her gardening tips.
“All right.” Cassian cleared his throat and tucked back his wings, “so,
no more practicing in the library. The next person Clotho asks to scold you
probably won’t be someone you feel like talking to.”Nesta’s eyes darkened as she considered which of her least favorite
people it would be, and she nodded again.
His task done, he said, “Give me one more combination.” He rattled off
the order.
Her smile was nothing short of feline as she did just that. And her right
hook didn’t so much as bob downward.
“Good,” he said, and turned toward the ramp that would lead him out.
He startled at what he beheld: priestesses stopped along the railings on
several different levels, staring toward them. Toward Nesta.
At his attention, they instantly began walking or working or shelving
books. But a young priestess with coppery-brown hair—the only one of
them with no hood or stone—lingered at the rail the longest. Even from a
level below and across the pit, he could see that her large eyes were the color
of shallow, warm water. They were wide for a moment before she, too,
quickly vanished.
Cassian looked back to Nesta, who met his stare with near-simmering
eyes.
“Your right hook was perfect this morning,” he murmured.
“Yes.”
“But not when I watched you in the stacks.”
“I figured you’d correct me.”
Shock and delight slammed into him. She’d moved out of the stacks
before she let him do so. Into plain view. So they would all see him teaching
her.
He gaped at her.
“You can tell Clotho I won’t need to practice in the library anymore,”
Nesta said mildly, and turned back down the row.
She’d known Clotho and the others would never invite him, and never
go up to the ring to see what he could do. How he’d teach them. So she’d
shown the priestesses what she was learning, day after day. More than that,
she’d pissed off Clotho enough that the priestess had ordered him down
here.
Where Nesta had used him in a demonstration. Not for herself, but for
the priestesses who’d drifted over to watch.
Cassian let out a soft laugh. “Crafty, Archeron.”
Nesta lifted a hand over a shoulder in farewell as she reached her cart.They’d needed to see it, Nesta realized. What Cassian was like when he
taught her. That there was touching, but it was always with her permission,
and always professional. Needed to see how he never mocked her, only
gently corrected. And needed to see what he’d taught her. Hear him say
precisely what she could do with all those punching and kicking
combinations.
What the priestesses might learn to do.
But that evening, as Nesta left, the sign-up sheet remained blank.
She looked back at Clotho, who sat at her desk, as she always did, from
dawn until dusk.
If the priestess gathered that she’d been played, she didn’t let on. But
there was something like sorrow leaking from Clotho, as if she, too, had
wanted to see that sheet filled today.
Nesta didn’t know why it mattered. Why Clotho’s sorrow knocked the
wind from her, but then Nesta was moving, up through the House to the ten
thousand steps.
Perhaps she was good for nothing after all. Perhaps she’d been a fool to
think that this trick might convince them. Maybe physical training wasn’t
what they required to overcome their demons, and she’d been arrogant
enough to assume she knew what they needed.
Down and down the stairs Nesta walked, the walls pressing in.
She only made it to stair nine hundred before she turned around, her
steps as heavy as if they’d been weighed with lead blocks.
Nesta was still sweating and breathing hard when she stumbled into her
room and found a book on the nightstand. She raised a brow at the title.
“This isn’t your usual sort of romance,” she said to the room.
It wasn’t a romance at all. It was an old bound manuscript called The
Dance of Battle.
Nesta said, “You can take this one back, thank you.” The last thing she
wanted to read at night was some dreary old text about war strategy. The
House did no such thing, and Nesta sighed and picked up the manuscript, the
black leather binding so age-worn it was butter soft.
A familiar smell drifted to her from the pages. “You didn’t leave this for
me, did you?”The House replied by plopping down a stack of romances, as if to say,
This is what I would have chosen.
Nesta peered at the manuscript, full of Cassian’s scent, as if he’d read it
a thousand times.
He’d left it for her. Deemed her worthy of whatever lay inside.
Nesta perched on the edge of the bed and thumbed open the text.
It was midnight when she took a break from reading The Dance of Battle and
rubbed her temples. She hadn’t put it down, not even to eat dinner at her
desk, holding it with one hand while she devoured her stew with the other.
It was astonishing how much of the art of warfare was like the social
manipulation her mother had insisted she learn: picking battlegrounds,
finding allies amongst the enemies of one’s enemies … Some of it was
wholly new, of course, and such a precise way of thinking that she knew
she’d have to read the manuscript many times to fully grasp its lessons.
She’d been aware that Cassian knew how to lead armies. Had watched
him do so with unflinching precision and cleverness. But reading the
manuscript, she realized she had never understood just how much advanced
thinking went into planning battles and wars.
Nesta set the manuscript on her nightstand and lay back against her
pillows.
She pictured Cassian on a battlefield, as he’d been that day he’d gone
up against a Hybern commander and thrown a spear so hard the male had
been hurled from his horse upon impact.
He departed from the manuscript’s advice in only one way: he fought
on the front lines with his soldiers, rather than commanding from the rear.
She let her thoughts drift for a time, until they snared upon another
tangle of thorns.
Did it matter if the priestesses didn’t show up for training? Beyond her
own reluctance to concede failure, did it matter?
It did. Somehow, it did.
She had failed in every aspect of her life. Utterly and spectacularly
failed, and keeping others from realizing it had been her main purpose. She
had shut them out, had shut herself out, because the weight of all those
failures threatened to shatter her into a thousand pieces.
Nesta rubbed her face with her hands.Sleep was a long time coming.
Sweat was still running down her body when Nesta entered the library the
next afternoon, aiming for the ramp to take her down to where she’d left her
cart.
She didn’t have the courage to look at the empty sign-up sheet. To rip it
down.
She didn’t have the courage to look at Clotho and admit her defeat. She
kept walking.
But Clotho halted her with an upraised hand. Nesta swallowed.
“What?”
Clotho pointed behind Nesta, her gnarled finger indicating the doorway.
No, the pillar.
And it was not sorrow leaking from the priestess, but something like
buzzing excitement. Something that made Nesta whirl on her heel and stride
for the pillar.
A name had been scrawled on the sheet.
One name, in bold letters. One name, ready for tomorrow’s lesson.
GWYNPART TWO
BLADECHAPTER
